four three two one all right we're live
what's up man let's stop dude what's
hilarious folks I have to tell you this
I did a podcast earlier today and he
said why is your second for the day he
goes impressive endurance do you know
how fucking ridiculous that is for you
to say this is a guy who walked across
an article a day to take you 54 days by
yourself by myself trekking across the
fucking frozen tundra it that was an
endurance speed of its own yeah just bad
real endurance feet I'm just sitting
down talking to people oh my god you
talked already for two hours how do you
do it two more hours here we go yeah
easy yep yep - what the fuck were you
doing just just getting back actually
still uh still practically have the snow
on my shoes yeah I got back about a
month ago
54 day journey first person in history
to cross the entire continent solo
unsupported so no resupplies throughout
the thing no no aid no wind kites
nothing just me dragging 375 pounds sled
across Antarctica I can't believe it
only took you 54 days yeah that's it's
so big on a map how long do you think it
would take you to walk across America
well you got so we usually look at an
article to map this hilarious I show
people picture of Antarctica you're
smart guy you probably notice but
usually people see it on a map
projection because it gets flat right
right it's actually circular yeah so I
went from the edge of the wrong ice
shelf to the via the South Pole to the
Ross Ice Shelf so basically kind of a
diagonal across through the center and
then back to the other ice shelf what do
the flat earthers think about you're
traversing this this area this is what
you did this is how you there it is
exactly yes so he went to the center of
the fucking earth basically there it is
the top of the pole yeah bottom of the
earth you know standing down there
holding everyone up on my shoulders Wow
so you were at the South Pole and then
he trekked over to the to the ice shelf
yeah there son
it's funny you say about the flat
earthers though because all jokes aside
I've been getting a lot of trolling on
my Instagram page I've got guys going
like oh I was doing this speech the
other day people are super nice come up
in the Q&A afterwards want to shake my
hand take a pic
sure whatever and this guy walks up in
this real earnest look on his face he's
like so I really wanted to ask you how
was the whole and I was like excuse me
he was like you know the whole at the
center and I was like um give me a
little more he was like you know like
when you got to the edge and I was like
oh man like you're really asking this
question right now like we were talking
about I didn't quite know where to go
with it I was like yeah there's actually
at least I didn't see the edge and the
curvature kept going and I made it is
such a strange thing to believe but
people do and that people think people
are trolling about that and you know
what it actually started out it's
another 4chan thing you know did you
know that it's well I'm sure there was
probably somebody believed it before
that but it started off people were
trolling on 4chan then eventually people
just started actually going whoo yeah it
is flat and then they start believing it
and videos YouTube videos popped up
there's another YouTube video someone
linked to me the other day and I thought
I had like I thought I had like a few
hundred views but at 28,000 views there
was these all these guys to man like
call and proof that there's not a wall
like the wall like there would be like
Game of Thrones at the edge of the world
there's this whole comfort station but
there's another 28,000 people it's
proved that Colin never actually went oh
he's a New World Order shill well the
other the other funny one was that we
got a bunch all the Instagram pages I'm
out there alone completely by myself but
I want to share the whole story through
my Instagram to like share the journey
with people inspire others to do
whatever they want to do and I kept
being like want me he's not out there
alone he's taking pictures I was like
the film crew it's like guys have you
never heard of a tripod and a timer
watch Survivorman exactly so it's a
funny comment along those lines so your
sled was 300 and how many pounds 375
pounds to start so basically food and
fuel was the main the main weight so
people I called my project the
impossible first that's sort of what I
named the project because several people
attract right there and there so not
only you walking you're dragging this
big-ass heavy sled yeah yeah and look
dude people so people have tried this
you know going back a hundred years to
Ernest Shackleton saying if it was
possible and then the last few years
some really experienced polar explorers
have given it a shot and one guy
actually died less than a hundred miles
from the finish line because of you know
lack of nutrition and some challenges
with the weather and things like that
but people called it you know people
after that we're like it's impossible
and the reason people thought it was
impossible was because you can't get
resupplies meaning if you feel your sled
with food in a certain amount you
actually can't drag the sled anymore so
the whole math equation really was
figuring out just how much food and fuel
I could put in the sled the fuel melts
the water so I melted the ice into water
essentially and that equal to 375 pounds
and to be truth I could barely pull it
on the first day like a one hour into
getting dropped off I'm dropped off
completely alone out there in Antarctica
I planned this project for a year you
know and I get dropped off and after
about 1 hour pulling 375 pounds sled
through the snow it's minus 25 degrees
out I'm crying I'm literally crying and
the tears in my goggles are starting to
freeze and I'm like oh my god so I pick
up my satellite phone and I call home to
my wife Jenna who also creates and plans
all these projects with me and I'm like
babe I think we named the project the
right thing the impossible first yep it
looks like it might be impossible to
keep going one hour into it that was
about dirty poetess sled told everyone
I'm gonna do this and I'm already having
those doubts pull up but you know
fortunately I was able to get a little
bit further that day and fifty four hour
days later I made it to the end how far
did you get in the first today well it's
funny cuz we showed just show the map
actually you know it starts on the ice
shelf which is basically the frozen sea
ice and there's an edge of that that's
thick where the continent starts and so
I have a waypoint on my GPS that marks
that so the plane that drops me off
actually dropped me off on the ice shelf
before the continent starts and my first
Waypoint was kind of like the actual
start and so one hour and I haven't even
hit the real start so when I call her on
the phone she's like because she knows
the route she's like well how far are
you from the first Waypoint
which is where the actual start isn't
I'm like it's point six three more miles
she's like it's half a mile you have a
thousand more to go like get to the
first Waypoint you know and I was like
okay okay so I you know rally myself got
to the first Waypoint and then finally
got in my tent that night and just kind
of took a deep breath I think I was just
overwhelmed by the magnitude of it I
mean imagine being a speck in the middle
of Antarctica
loan these crazy temperatures you know
all the excitement but fears of the
journey ahead and 375 pounds on my back
when the sleds you know when the snows
deep too loose snow makes 375 pounds
even even heavier than if it's like
light you know I see a consolidated so
yeah it was it was a rough start to say
the least
did you do any sort of a test run
pulling the sled anywhere else yeah so
the training element of it was pretty
cool so this was I actually set a few
other World Records previous to this in
the mountains and things we could talk
about if you want but the the last year
is I really committed to this project I
yet decided to obviously start training
specifically for this I needed to put on
about 20 pounds of muscle I'm usually
six-foot 165 pretty lean I'd race
triathlon professionally for a number of
years and realized I needed to be a bit
bigger because I was going to lose so
much weight and I found an amazing coach
in Portland Oregon where I live this guy
named Mike McKay oh I don't know if
you've ever heard of him but I know
you've had you've had David Goggins on
your show I take it so Mike actually
surpassed David's pull-up record Mike
did 5804 pull-ups in 20 hours I think
Goggins at about 4000 which are both
insane to me because I can use another
thousand and he was where Mike was
wearing a 30 pound weight vest mike
MacAskill absolute absolute legend so
wait a minute wait a minute where did
5000 fucking chin-ups with a weight vest
on dude I barely can do 10 I'm right
there with you add like pull-ups or not
I've got some other physical strikes but
the pull-up Department is not not my
strong suit
get this to just just cuz I got a I got
a big up my bad for a second that's his
fourth row great he also pulled f250
truck 20 miles across Death Valley in a
harness so I'm trying to look for the
best guy to teach me how to pull heavy
show the guy was like this is the guy
love these people I just make you feel
like such a pussy the greatest thing
about Mike you know big strong jack dude
but like super soft-spoken she's like
he's like ya did this pull-ups it's cool
like so it
I would basically fucked with that
record so hard he could die and like
come back to life and live a whole
nother life and no one's ever gonna do
it yeah so anyways my training he was
the guy I went to him trained out of
this gym in Portland where he trains out
of and he just he got me bigger he got
me stronger but he also did all sorts of
badass crazy stuff I mean there's a
physical challenge but it's more of a
mental challenge than anything so he had
me you know my hands in ice buckets
doing planks to get my heart rate jacked
up and then he'd be like get out of the
water then I pulled my hands out of the
ice buckets do you know I'd be a seated
squat against the wall but then he would
hand me Legos and so my hands are frozen
my feet are in ice buckets now in a
plank my heart rates you know 190 and
he's like put this Lego set together so
the dexterity of my fingers the mental
acuity to get there is what a fucking
savage this guy is yeah yeah he did that
for veteran suicides yeah exactly so
he's got really really important
missions behind all of his projects he
calls him 12 labors and over his life
he's trying to set 12 route world
records and various things people that
are just they're just designed different
yeah yeah so he's the man but like this
crazy training he came up with for me
that was like the ice the water the
mental acuity all of this was like he
was like yo you're gonna be in
Antarctica if your tent blows away when
you're pulling up you're dead like the
stakes are that high 50 60 mile-per-hour
winds like absolutely crazy so if you
ever have an issue like that well you
thought the tent could blow away I think
I don't know if you have it there's a
clip on my Instagram I posted a few days
ago of me of me setting up a tent in a -
80 degrees out 60 mile-per-hour winds
it's pretty gnarly but yeah I mean there
was one time when the tent almost did
blow away for me yet there's this one
there's one other one this is me getting
in the tent looking like an absolute
disaster when I get help with your audio
but that's me that's me
well you're pulling ice on a massive
storm and I just so hard to get the tent
up I didn't know if I was gonna be able
to get it up or I was gonna have to just
keep walking Jay
hoping these tadpoles hold man those
really intense how do you stay warm in
that tent so it's average temperature is
about minus 25 minus 30 in Antarctica
but like I said when the wind jacks up I
know if there's the other clip of me
setting up the tent but if you get a
chance to see that it's you know it's
about giving about minus 80 outside
which took it's hard to wrap your mind
around that but I've tried to put it in
perspective by saying I could take a cup
of boiling water and throw it in an air
and immediately turns ice like that's
that's that's the temperature we're
dealing with yeah this is me trying to
keep the tent poles together usually
have someone else to hold on to it but
I'm alone I'm completely alone out there
so this is me struggling with my tent
just trying to keep it up I've got it
you know tied down to my sled they're
just battling battling the winds and the
state like I said the stakes are high if
that blows away I don't have a spare
tent I've got no extra weight in my sled
to hold spare stuff so it's it's it's do
or die quite literally in a moment like
that of a patch kit I had a couple
things repaired a sewing kit a patch kit
stuff like that but if the tent itself
or the tent poles you know the part
pretty much and also you have to set up
your tripod and film this and then press
stop and go back and sudden how are you
keeping these batteries juiced up no
this isn't the film crew man that was
following me around that write of the
flat a film crew near the ice wall the
no it was basically I had to keep the
batteries warm by keeping them right
against my skin so I keep the batteries
right against my skin my body weight
would keep it warm and the second I
wanted to take it out I pull it out real
quick hit play and then it would you
know usually it lasts a minute or third
enough to get a little clip or something
like that you couldn't just let it run
but then it would you know completely
freeze even a full battery would be you
know on zero battery by pretty quickly
you using solar panels to charge it yeah
so one crazy cool thing about Antarctica
at that time of year is it's 24 hours of
daylight and so the Sun never sets so
even when I'm on my tent in the middle
of the night I mask your plugs to kind
of pretend like it's nighttime but 24
hours of daylight so solar panels
keeping everything charged cameras phone
batteries all that and are you traveling
with are you using GPS yeah so I had
some waypoints the GPS waypoints that
kind of
led my path to the South Pole etc but
mostly actually using a compass so I'd
look at my GPS maybe once every week or
something like that just cuz I'm bearing
the juice is actually just easier
because so I basically had like a
harness in front of me that would have
my GPS or my my compass it's kind of off
my chest more or less because some of
the clips we saw the sun's out but
actually more than half of the time the
clouds would come in so be just complete
and utter whiteout I couldn't even see
one step in front of me and so I'd
actually have to just stare down at my
compass keep it on this bearing and so
imagine you can't see anything can't see
one step in front of you I'm pulling it
you know 300 pound sled 1213 hours per
day not listening to anything really can
they dead silence and just staring at
this compass bearing all day long so
going crazy I mean the mental side of it
was by far the most interesting side of
it for me you know have a lifelong
endurance athlete but really kind of an
exploration into the mind is what it was
for me and while I was curious about it
so spending all this time in silence
I've done are you familiar with a pasta
meditation yes
so I've done a couple of these ten day
silent meditation retreats before this
which is 10 days no reading no writing
no eye contact
kind of dove into that piece of it but
54 days alone in Antarctica and complete
silence was was next level of that for
sure damn dude that is so fucking
impressive believe you did that now when
you're looking down and it's an utter
whiteout and you're looking at your
compass and you're dragging this shit
behind you like D are you doing anything
in your mind are you like saying songs
are you what are you doing um there's a
couple different things but really what
ended up happening is I started to be
able to trigger these flow States so you
know as a lifelong professional athlete
through different capacities in my life
you know I've tapped into that you know
I was a swimmer when I was a little kid
so swimming laps in a pool sometimes I
would like kind of just happen to this
like timeless space where you know maybe
30 minutes would go by in two minutes or
something like that but I never really
knew how I got there just would
sometimes tap into it sometimes not you
know the zone flow state whatever you
want to call that but in Antarctica
I went in with the sort of attention
about intention of exploring that space
in my mind and so as I got more and more
into these whiteouts into these compass
in staring at this compass staring at
this expansive landscape I started to
find ways to actually trigger that flow
state in my mind and so it got to the
point where I could for several days at
a time be in this deep flow state so you
know my day was about 17 hours everyday
between getting up boiling my water
getting out of my tent in those crazy
conditions packing my sled dragging it
for 13 hours setting my tent back up in
these storms but I got into the sort of
sequence of being so present with each
step each next sequence that it ended up
being in this really timeless spaceless
place in my mind of true high
performance that was almost like the
most deepest peaceful meditative state
that I can possibly imagine it was it
was very profound and beautiful to get
there in my mind no are you boiling this
water in your tent like yeah so it kind
of a slightly different white gas fuel
stove so not the canisters where you
could throw away but that gas that you
could refill the stove but a stove with
fuel basically the way my tent was you
saw the outer layer of the tent there
there's actually an inner part that's a
tent so that there's a vestibule where
basically there's snow inside the
doorway but not outside outside so I
would shovel that snow from inside of
the tent vestibule into my pot and be
able to melt the water that way and
drink about six liters of water every
single day when I was out there no it's
a lot of snow a lot of n takes a few
hours to melt that but people don't
realize this in Arctic is actually the
largest desert in the world so it's
actually very dry it doesn't snow very
often but when it does of course never
melt and the South Pole was at 9,000 300
feet so not only am I in this desert but
I'm at altitude doing this thing did you
train it altitude use like one of those
tents to sleep in or yeah so this this
gym that Mike and I trained at it's
called evolution health care and fitness
in Portland they actually have an
altitude room there so that it's not
even a tent but they actually have a
full a full room where you can you know
got rowing machines it's got treadmills
it's got all that simulated up to about
14,000 how big is the room it's about
400 square feet I still is big I mean
it's not like
you know yeah it's like a proper room
I've been in some of those tents before
when I was racing triathlon many years
ago a lot people were starting to sleep
in those tents but a lot people have a
hard time and then they get warm and
stuff like that and a lot fighters use
them as well but but yeah it was pretty
cool to have a full room that you can
actually you know be in and move in
probably for to stimulate some of the
high intensity stuff yeah and so it
would take you hours every day to make
your water yeah I would say I was
boiling water for about 3-4 hours per
day so an hour two in the morning hour
two in the evening it takes a lot of
energy to boil you know frozen snow when
it's that cold out she had to care I had
to carry a lot of fuel that was the
others really happy I was gonna say
that's like hundreds of hours of fuel
yeah so I took about 17 liters of fuel
so that's what six gallons or something
like that how did you know that that was
gonna be enough I did some practicing
beforehand I in 2016 I did another world
record project where I climbed the
tallest mountain on each of the seven
continents the Seven Summits as well as
went to the North and South Pole but
much smaller polar expeditions a week
basically across in the last degree of
latitude and so when those expeditions
alphas on Everest during that time
Denali etc all of that in 139 days but I
did that and that kind of helped me get
a sense of it but honestly it was also
best guess based on talking to people
different experts in the field you know
diving into that but you never know is
it gonna be enough or too little I
decided too much when you when when you
finally got to the end how much do you
have left
so my final push I actually I woke up on
the morning of Christmas Eve 24th of
December this past year and it look I
was 77 miles from the finish and I've
been going at that point at the
beginning of the trip I was only going
910 miles per day towards the end I
started going about 20-25 miles per day
so I said you know what like I'm about
three days out and then I thought to
myself maybe if I could push really hard
these next two days I could do it in two
days like 215 plus hour days like really
get into it and start looking at my fuel
and food supplies and like they were
pretty low I had enough fuel a few a few
liters of fuel but I actually only had
about a day or two a food like real
substantial food left and so I woke up
and I was like alright let's go for this
and in the actually deepest
talk about flow states that was the
deepest flow state of my life I woke up
in one hour and that day it's Christmas
morning now I wake up and I'm just
locked in and I just came I didn't tell
anyone back home didn't tell my wife who
was tracking me they had this GPS
tracker where they could follow me but I
was just in my mind I was like you know
what not not three days not two days I'm
going straight for it and so I did a
final 32 hour continuous push on day 54
77 miles straight dragging my sled all
the way to get to the finish line and
one continuous push no music no nothing
just like in my head in this in this
crazy flow state of I don't know high
performance and it was it was it was a
crazy final push to get there but made
it right before the food and fuel ran
out oh my god there's no one there of
course right you crossed the finish side
you're like done this no one in the
world has ever done this applause nope I
was at zero and so what do you do when
you get to the end you said hey I'm done
come get me yeah yeah take for them to
come get you it took me a week to get
out of Antarctica totally took actually
me four days to get out of there
but there's a crazy other component to
this which is no one in the world had
ever done this before like I said a few
really talented people some of the best
explorers in the world had tried
recently one guy died and it just so
happened there's a really specific
season when you can attempt this but
another guy was attempting this at the
exact same time as me
a British a British guy who's a
equivalent of a Navy SEAL you know
British special forces the living most
experienced guy in Antarctica has
actually pulled 3,000 plus miles in
Antarctica now on various expeditions
and so we got dropped off one mile away
from each other to begin this thing and
obviously I was the first I did win this
race head-to-head and at the finish line
I waited for him for a few days because
I want to congratulate him because he
did ultimately finish but you can only
imagine I would go going back to that
first hour where I was like it's
impossible it was also like it's
impossible and both oh by the way this
Navy SEAL dude who knows more about
Antarctica than me he's often going I
can see him at the distance just like
leaving me in the dust but fortunately
after day six I caught up to him
you know I waved to him and this weird
like passing of the torch moment like I
was passing him and then I never saw him
again until I finished and I
about 70 miles ahead of him about two
and a half days ahead of him that's
gotta suck for him got this motherfucker
I brought it home for America man you
know appreciate that we all we all
appreciated that but still that's gotta
suck for him yeah so I actually even
though I finished and the first thing I
could have kind of wanted to do I
haven't had I've had a shower when I
have it I actually to save weight so I
could get as much food and fuel in my
sled I brought no extra clothes no extra
pair of underwear like literally no
extra pair of underwear no no
so where are you shitting out there
everyone wants to know this so let's
just get it on the table I'll give her a
skate basically I described that
vestibule situation so one side I cook
in right if the wind is calm I get out
of my tent dig a hole and and you know
go shit in a hole basically but when
it's real windy like those storms I just
watch like you're gonna get frostbite if
you try to you know bend over pull your
pants down once -80 out right so in the
vestibule of my tent not the side I'm
cooking on but the other side where I'm
still inside covered I dig a hole in
there and that was my morning routine
get up at 6:00 a.m. start pulling my
water on one side of my tent and it's
not glamorous it's not a pretty thing at
the bake of actually to me this is very
cool but also not glamorous within one
degree of latitude of the South Pole so
the last degree of latitude 89 degrees
south poles at 90 degrees basically 69
miles or 60 nautical miles circumference
around the South Pole Antarctica being
as pristine as it is they have all these
laws about environmental conservation
which to me is amazing being someone who
just loves and is a great steward of the
land they actually say you can't even
leave your human waste in holes here
even there's nobody out there they're
like we want this to be completely
protected area and so yes usually my
sled was getting lighter most of the
time because I was eating food every day
and burning fuel but in that last degree
of latitude to the South Pole and
crossing it I was shitting in a bag
wrapping it up and putting it in my sled
and having to carry it with me
so yeah Wow it shows discipline
[Laughter]
something a lot of people have been like
yeah yeah put it in the back fuck you
ones up there
who cares if I take a shit up there it
was tempting but you know so I grew up
in it going out in the outdoors it just
has Leave No Trace principle that I
really love and in particularly
Antarctica one of the things about
Antarctica it's one of those places
where imagine you've traveled far and
wide in your life and there's some few
places at least in my mind where you
just you can't put it into words until
you've stepped off you're there and for
me this is my second time in an article
both times you know this big cargo ship
basically lands you on the continent
then you get in a smaller plane to get
dropped off to where I needed to start
on the edge of the continent but both
times stepping off the plane I'm just
shit-eating grin ear to ear on my face
because I just am like whoa what is this
place even the second time seeing it I
felt like my cheeks were sore because I
was just smiling so big of just pristine
beauty the blank canvas the I mean you
look out on the landing like human
footprints haven't touched 98% of the
continent something like that I mean
it's untouched and so shitting in a bag
if I had to do that to do my part to
that way did you drag at the end it was
about three used the bags one per day
four at that section is about a hundred
twenty miles it took me I don't know a
week or so to cover that distance so
yeah added added weight to my sled
rather than subtracting during that was
the middle part of the journey right
around the 30th and fortieth day now how
did you calculate your nutrition so the
nutrition journey was actually
fascinating and to be honest in my
opinion people said well well how come
other people died trying or why did
other people not be able to do it
because one other guy ran out of food
and so when I was looking at this
journey you know we again we're calling
it the impossible first like how am I
going to make the impossible possible
and I thought that the nutrition piece
of it was going to be huge I actually my
dad's an organic farmer in Hawaii like
whole food health and nutrition has been
a big part of my personal journey and so
I found a company that was really in it
with me so this company called standard
processed they're a whole food
supplement company I'm really involved
in chiropractic as acupuncture and they
I presented them with this and I said
hey what do you guys think like is there
a way to like figure this out and
they're like well we have 20 of the top
doctors nutritionists food scientists
you know on our staff and this
Innovation Center around nutrition like
come in the lab with us and so they'd
never done this with an athlete
for but they were intrigued and so I
actually went and did a years-long worth
of you know hundred plus blood tests vo2
max tests all this fitness testing all
around my physiology and they created
ultimately a custom food solution as I
bar form essentially called the column
bar that was all whole food ingredients
it was no you know chemical derivatives
or anything it was you know coconut oil
you know seeds nuts you know all these
different pieces of macronutrients as
well as micronutrient blends that I
needed but custom tailored to my
physiology and that's what I mean that
was the bulk of what I ate I ate 7,000
calories per day I was burning 10,000 so
even at 7,000 I was losing about a pound
of day a weight of weight almost to my
bodies that's why I needed to get bigger
but these column bars just burned super
efficiently in my body like it was just
the perfect blend of everything so
eating the same thing every single day
or 54 days might have gotten a little
bit boring but my body was just it was
actually pretty dialed in Wow
now when they did this and they they
made these custom bars for you did they
know I mean how did you know how many
calories you're gonna be burning where
you're pulling is 300 pound sled was it
dependent upon the conditions like if
the snow was more packed or icy yeah
more difficult if it was soft right 100%
so I mean we had to use our best guess
honestly we had to just say let's use
our best guess I guys had a bunch of
smart people smarter than me we're in
this room all these doctors these PhDs
around this and we had to make some
assumptions and ultimately they were
like okay you're gonna burn 10,000
calories let's get you 10,000 calories
in these bars and we started running the
weight on the sled and we're like
that'll be a 500 pound slit like we
can't carry that so it's this equation
of like can you make this LED light
enough to pull if we can get the
nutrition right how efficiently does
that burn in your body how much can your
stomach absorb you're hungry the whole
time more or less yeah far yeah I was I
was ready for a big fucking meal which
was the first thing you ate this the
first thing I ate when I got back was a
big burger but you might call me lame
for saying this but I'm just gonna say
cuz it's the truth
what I craved was salad man what I
craved was just something because I you
know I mean I've been like this
freeze-dried filled this like chunk of
column bar which got me through but it
was like something green and alive and
so I
big salad like avocado and sadly no I
had a big burger too but then of course
I eat my stomach is shrunk right I ate
this big meal and I'm like oh my stomach
cometh hurts but motional II I was like
I'm back in the real world baby so it
was like it was everything I could get
my hands I would do a buffet just like
my stomach was hurting but I was like
I'm not gonna stop and I just started
eating like whatever croissants and
bread it was all the figs so I would
imagine your body would like you
probably craving all that life like live
things green the exact vegetables and
fruit it's weird to say I mean like I'm
from Portland Oregon you know it's
pretty green part of the world up there
in the Pacific Northwest and so you're
not even just the the food component but
an art there's nothing alive out there
there's no animals on the coast there
are but like in the interior I didn't
see any animals I'd see a bird I didn't
see you know nothing right and so not
only I think as humans were kind of
wired to see things living I mean even
here in LA bit of a concrete jungle but
like you see trees on this tree you see
the ocean yeah whatever yeah I sort of
not see anything alive for 54 days it
was like wow I want to like smell trees
fresh air and the trees I want to eat a
salad I don't know like that's where
like my mind got to is kind of coming
back to reality in that way man so when
they're constructing these bars for you
and this is all based on your body and
like what burns well with you how do
they like in terms of like how many cat
what's the best food in terms of weight
versus calories and is there some foods
that are heavier but don't have as many
calories yeah so I think I'm gonna get
the numbers pretty close to right here
but I think per our fat of course of the
macronutrients we got protein fat and
carbs right right fat is the most
calorie dense of them all you have to
make sure these things don't freeze
solid right that was one of the check it
was minus 25 in my sled every single day
so it had to actually be edible while
frozen essentially because it would be
too hard to rewarm them because this was
a food I was eating outside sled so was
actually frozen - frozen - but actually
where we where the workaround happened
were they kind of they're mastermind was
they were like you actually need this
macronutrient blend to be about 40 or 45
percent
that's because I needed high-fat food
you know to stay alive out there and so
they basically pumped it full of coconut
oil which ultimately you know does you
know you see coconut oil on the Shelf
it's not a liquid it's actually a solid
but it doesn't freeze like rock solid so
having that much coconut oil and it
allowed it to we actually had to get it
shipped down frozen because if it didn't
freeze it got it actually kind of got
like flat and so they put it in these
freeze-dried packs shipped it down to
Chile how to do this whole customs thing
the import it was like a whole like
crazy logistical mess but got that done
and it actually held up so that it was
enough fat in there that I could
actually bite off chunks of this rather
than you know there's plenty of stories
the guys in these cold places breaking
teeth on Clif bars and things like that
so the column bars were or at good-good
wall frozen so it's mostly like a lot of
fats and seeds and these and nuts and
then the other thing is that they like I
said that they're their bread and butter
at this company standard process is
there a you know supplement company so
but it's all whole food derivative so
organic farm basically vitamins and so
they actually intermix like probiotics
and magnesium and like beet extract and
all these sort of plant derivatives as
well to give me the phytonutrients I
need that's not giving me the calories
but that's giving me that and I stayed
healthy the whole time and I got super
worn down I got super skinny you know
all that kind of stuff but I actually
stayed you know I'd never got sick you
know that was healthy that was my other
question like what was the plan if you
did get sick was just waited out in the
tent waited out in the tent you know
there there's there is I'm in contact
with anything though right so I said I
had a couple of things one is I had my
GPS which has pain in satellite every
time but I mean is life forms oh no no
bugs no no yes and I know yeah sorry
yeah so that part of it there's nothing
out there so basically if you get a
bacteria you've brought it out there so
the actual idea was more or less to get
out there healthy rather than you can
stay pretty healthy in terms of bacteria
and stuff of course you can get pretty
worn down and sick in the cold or
flu-like symptoms and any virus that you
have is something you had when you land
exactly because there's I mean there's
nothing out there and are you were you
concerned about that because like I
would imagine like the anticipation
leading up to it is a little stressful
sometimes your immune system can get run
down Oh a hundred percent you know of
course it it's fun to recount the the
epic parts of these journeys or my other
you know world records climbing Everest
or this summit day or this push or
whatever but anything that's this long
duration this was fifty four days the
world record in two thousand six 139
days like the boring answer is like how
did you do it it's like well like I
washed my hands really good when I went
to the airport and I did meet this like
food off the street and I you know
staying healthy yeah you can't get that
right you know it doesn't matter you
know imagine you're on the flight headed
out there and some dude next you
sneezing yeah oh yeah motherfuck there
was a couple of times when I raced
triathlon many years ago I think I raced
in something like 25 countries all over
all different places and there are three
or four times I can remember like
remember one time I flew to the
Philippines this place called Subic Bay
gearing up for this big race and sure
enough the night before the race just
like diarrhea like crazy puking my
brains out so I I jump into I jump into
the swim swim in the ocean you know it's
a mile so I'm feeling like shit but I'm
like I'm gonna try through all the
Philippines like I got to do this race
you know sure enough on the bike I get
on my bike and my bike the bike course
went right next to my hotel and I just
had no power and I was like yep I'm
turning up in the Filipino guys like no
no you're going the wrong way the course
and I was like nope I'm going to my
hotel room to shit tomorrow so yeah one
one bad burrito one bad this can ruin
you know any other performance I mean
yes I read what you're pulling a 300
seat and five pounds sledding in alright
okay
oh my god it's not a pretty moment that
is not a pretty but place with the one
pair of underwear that make it's even
more so yes get staying healthy was was
super key to all of this but you know
all things considered me my body of
course got banged up some but like I
came out you know relatively healthy and
I think the food nutrition was a key
part of that oh it has to be what what
sounds like you really did it wisely
like you I mean that's so cool that you
have that company behind you that
organized the preparation in the ocean
yeah yeah good lord man now were you
trying to put fat on before you laugh as
well as muscle yeah so with Mike you
know the goal was to put you know I put
about 10 to 15 pounds of muscle on and
then another five pounds of fat on top
of that just knowing that I've that I've
got total was 20 pounds total but you
know
between fad and the last the last few
weeks I was you know basically I be
lifted I you know I gotten strong and
all this didn't want to wear myself out
too much you know
stressing my muscles because I was about
to go undergo this and it was where I
was just putting calories and so I'd you
know eat dinner and then but Jen and my
wife would be like what are you gonna
head out and I bake she'll be sitting
there eating like a pint of you know
coconut bliss ice cream whatever it was
you know putting calories into just to
put some fat on there cuz I just burned
off me immediately I mean it was gone so
yeah so you must have been shredded by
the time I was over yeah I I was pre
that there's actually out of go pulled
up but there's a photo of my Instagram
that Scott shows a little bit of the
before and after body shot but I yeah I
was I was very lean but it was honestly
it was all so scary like in the end I
think I held up pretty well but you're
out there by yourself you've got no
context and so I started looking down at
my legs halfway through this journey
yeah there I am so before and after not
that much of a difference yeah it's a
little bit lighter you definitely look a
lot more lean yeah more I wouldn't even
say a lot more lean yeah so it's about
20 pounds different but my mind's play
tricks on me more than anything I look
down at my waist about half way through
and I was like holy shit like I'm
falling apart here and I actually
started getting in my own head about am
i losing too much weight am I not but
when I when I actually weighed myself
afterwards like 20 pounds like we
thought it could have been as much as 40
pounds so you know only losing 20 pounds
all things considered like you said I
don't look that other than that really
cool beard that I grew so you were ready
to get gaunt
yeah I mean we have planned for that we
have planned for that like I said I
started out I started out about 165 I
put myself up to 185 to leave and I
finished at 165 so actually finished way
more near my sort of natural fairly lean
weight for my height so a perfect plan
but there's there's plaything fit wrong
but I kind of planned out four things
going wrong yeah I mean I'm probably
this this was a in one in one way as a
solo effort I mean I was out there by
myself walking across this but this was
a massive team effort from these guys
getting behind me all these doctors you
know all the different people I have
supporting me my you know my wife and
then what she does with all the media
and our nonprofit and it's abenney
things a lot of pieces go into making
this thing happen so I was a team effort
for sure big time that is so
amazing now at the end you get there
you're done but there's no one there so
what do you do you make a phone call
yeah yo I'm done come get me do they
know where you are cuz they're tracking
you right yeah so what was kind of crazy
was that crazy last push right it's this
32 hour non-stop push till the end and
so what happened is it's Christmas Day
when I start this push and so my whole
family I'm actually the I five older
sisters big family you know I'm the baby
of the bunch and they're all together in
Hood River Oregon at my sister's house
and they're thinking cool Collins like
getting close to end of his project
we'll track him and every day they track
me on my GPS at ping the satellites
every 10 minutes so people all my
Instagram followers anyone could
actually follow the progress in real
time and they were used to seeing me
stop at about twelve twelve hours into
the day so twelve hours under the day
happens and they're like okay maybe he's
going another route with 13 hours 14
hours 15 hours they're like what's going
on 16 hours my whole family's not
normally together but they're all
together because it's Christmas Day
finally 18 hours into this push I
finally stop and head up a waypoint
because what happened was I ran out of
water even though I said I'm not
stopping I was like I don't have three
liters of water after 18 hours I need
more water so I at least have to put my
tent up to boil water inside so what I
do it's now midnight I started 6:00 a.m.
it's now midnight I've gone in 18 hours
it's a midnight in Antarctica is what
the times when I was staying on was 7
p.m. on the west coast so it's Christmas
dinner
I finally Colin it's my mom my sister my
wife like everyone's on the phone
they're like oh my god you did 47 miles
today that's your best buy like 15 miles
incredible and I was like no no I'm not
stopping I'm actually just boiling water
for an hour to continue back out for
another like 14 hours to finish this
thing they're like what the weather must
be really good
wow you're feeling so good and I was
like I was like actually it's the worst
weather of the entire trip because
there's a massive ground blizzard blue
like like hour 16 of this bush it was
nice just this ground blizzard which is
it's not actually snowing but it feels
like it's snowing cuz it's so windy that
the snow is blowing around everywhere
but I was locked in such a deep flow
state in my mind that even setting my
tent up in this crazy storm even getting
inside 18 hour push I was just like nope
I've got this and it felt like for me
when I reflect on that moment Jenna even
says this you know she talked to me
every night and the
there's clips of me crying there's clips
of me having doubts you know there was
ups and downs for this whole thing but
she was like you sounded the most lucid
I've ever heard you and she's watching
me high performing her things she was
like you were locked in and so instead
of her going like maybe you should sleep
and like get some rest she was like I
trust you like I believe you like go for
it she could just hear it in my voice
and it was a crazy thing and I ate for
me you know I'm 33 years old now and it
really felt like a culmination of my
entire life in a lot of ways like from
the swim practices as a little kid to
you know I got burned in this crazy fire
that I overcame in time like that if you
want I you know race triathlon
professionally all of these moments life
the meditation practice the the family
the support likes like all of these
things were stacking on each other to
kind of lead to this final culminating
moment and I had to pull on lessons from
each phase of my life to be that locked
in but I found myself just you know kind
of in that moment in that flow state
being able to get up out of that hour 18
and say to them actually I'm going back
out this crazy ground blizzard I got
another 14 hours to go to finish this
thing and so that was you know 32 hours
and 77 miles later that the final push
to the end now what did you wear in
terms of like a base layer and we was
you're concerned about you sweating
while you're pulling all that weight
especially initially when I was 375
pounds yeah so you know one of the the
famous lines that you know people who
have been in the polar environments will
say is if you sweat you die and you know
it's maybe a little bit of hyperbole but
it's not far from the truth which is you
start sweating and you stop for even 30
seconds your clothes are literally
freezing to your body and so it was this
crazy kind of kind of balance of being
able to pull this sled get your heart
rate elevated enough to keep your body
warm but not too warm that you were
sweating and so any second I would start
sweating I would strip layers off so
there was times especially when there
was no wind it still be ambient
temperature - 20 - 25 but I would just
have like a thin gore-tex jacket on and
one base layer that's it I mean we
wearing merino my merino actually itches
my skin although it's really good I'm a
little bit allergic to it so I work
synthetic fabric do they have a
synthetic that completely mimics merino
in terms of the way when it's moist you
still stay warm yeah so Mirena
honestly Marino is amazing fabric for
that reason unfortunately for me like I
said it just irritates it is so funny
that you could suffer but sorry is
synthetic but what company are you using
like what what I was using Mountain
Hardwear base layers and then actually
my outer layer so this norwegian company
called bergens of norway they don't
sponsor me but they actually believe it
or not the Norwegians know a thing or
two about being in the polar environment
and so they've designed a really good
jacket and pant that's actually really
breathable and really good and then I
suit sewed a fur rough on to the edge so
a wolf a wolf fur a rough on the outer
side of the hood I think is wolf yeah
wool fur wolf fur I thought you were
saying wool when I was like it sounds
like wolf you know more about this than
me I'm not the alpha dog know your
audience I have nothing I am not a big
hunter myself I've never had never had
done that a lot of that but yeah so wolf
fur well they know how to survive in the
cold yeah exactly so the base layer is a
synthetic what is the material that it's
made out of the base layer is yeah it's
a it's a synthetic like a poly
polypropylene and so it when it sweats
it dries quickly yeah it's what sweats
it dries quickly but the idea was just
to not get it wet so basically stripped
down as much as possible but like
literally I'd go from that and then of
course I needed to eat and drink every
whatever 30 minutes or whatever actually
more like every hour so I'd stop so I'd
stop in the front of my sled I had a
huge puffy down Jack like a massive like
Michelin Man huge Buffy down jacket so
even if you're stopping for a minute to
drink water before even trying to do
that boom put the big jacket on because
that's no cold or how cold you can get
immediately from stopping I mean it's
just so much colder than when pulling
the sled your heart rate stays up and
keeps you pretty warm I would imagine
like your your hands and your feet too
that would be a real issue right the
small digits yeah I mean you know frost
bites real for sure hands outside of
gloves that's why some of the stuff I
was doing in the training of get my
hands with the dexterity you know you
have to tie all these knots with big
gloves mittens on you can't take your
gloves off for any sizable period of
time if you look back on a lot of my
photos I've actually got tape on my face
over crossed my nose and there and
that's because I started getting tiny
little bits of frostbite on the bottoms
of my nose and
on my cheeks because I'd wear a
full-face mask buff everything but even
you know tiny little you know one you
know needle prick of wind on your face
throughout the day and that cold is
gonna turn into a cold injury and so I
started getting a few cold injuries on
my face nothing you know too bad you're
looking to grease your face up or
anything like mostly the the tape and
then I had a little bit of like Vaseline
or like chapstick type of stuff on some
of the bad areas the one thing actually
that I did that I'd never done before
would actually worked well was a tip
that I got which was my finger started
cracking really really bad from the cold
and so they were like really painful and
I actually was pouring putting superglue
into all of those basically little micro
cuts on my fingers which when someone
told me that as a trick I was like
really but turns out it's actually a
really good trick so it's kind of super
gluing these cuts on my fingers back
together and that actually worked
reasonably well all things considered
it's the operative word but it yeah yeah
wow so you're wearing the what about
your eyes so I'm wearing I'm wearing a
goggles but you know funny enough you
know I had a couple of you know fancier
nicer ski goggles with me but yeah
there's the tape on my face right there
but but yeah it's like that's actually
just like the normal katieb tape like a
physio tape that you can see like
athletes wearing and I just had it in my
repair kit it wasn't meant for this
purpose but I was like what do I have
that I could put on my face to block it
a little bit better but I had those
goggles on some of the time but actually
the goggle that I wore the most was one
that you'd might use for motocross
because it has like a plastic face mask
over the front of it hmm because the
wind when it was blowing it would just
kind of blow around so sometimes I had
this fleece draped over my face but it
blow too much and so I had this more
plastic face mask yeah so that that's
the that's one you can see look how
frozen it's frozen it is on the inside
that is so
oh my god there and then like this
neoprene mask underneath so I had like
double facemask double tape like
anything to just you know keep me keep
me warm
no I suspected that it was so high above
sea level there yeah yeah so you've got
whatever it is nine thousand three
hundred feet at the South Pole so it's
basically just like elevated ground but
it seems flat right but yeah I started
at sea level so yeah I'm not only Ameren
like I'm actually going uphill all the
way to the South forty some days I
pulled that sled uphill completely so it
was thanking me out nothing freaks me
out
yeah like when you were freaking out an
hour in and you hadn't even actually hit
land yet yeah what at what thoughts were
going through your head what were you
thinking man I need to get someone to
fucking rescue me I mean it definitely
you know that was moments of doubt this
is on Everest no we get to this yeah the
you know what's going through my head
was was these moments of doubt for sure
but one of the things for me you know to
be honest with these projects that I've
created I love I love pushing my own
limits I love I love finding the edges
of my own potential all that kind of
stuff but I also now really enjoy
building these projects that I can share
with other people I do this I just
nonprofit work where there's no thirty
thousand school kids tuning into this
project and using this as curriculum in
their classrooms to learn about climate
change to learn about weather
atmospheric pressure that's a really
cool project like that and then just
sharing it with the world at large
people going like this is impossible I
mean how many guys do you know that it's
like one day I'm gonna do this cool
thing but they like never do it right
and so actually going after that and
sharing it away it's like you might not
want to walk across Antarctica but like
you probably have some hope or some
dream or some goal that you want to
accomplish in your life like fucking go
and do it like get after it and so for
me doing this it's funny I've started to
think of myself less as an athlete and
actually more of as an artist and my
canvas really is just endurance sports
but creating these art projects in the
world that I can create and share with
people through storytelling to hopefully
inspire them do it so what was I
thinking in that first hour was you know
I don't I don't want my art project to
blow up right in my face but more so
there was this was bigger than myself
and that's really what kept me going
forward just like I can't let these kids
in these public school
think that I could after the first hour
like these other people that are there
driving inspiration from this hopefully
like I want to do this for this larger
purpose and honestly that's that's what
really kept me going forward through the
really hard times is that the connection
to a larger purpose of what I want to
put out in the world and that ripple
effect the positivity that's awesome and
then of course you have a giant team
that prepared in yeah you know it's it's
it's a lot lot goes into it so get get
into that get into that starting line of
having that doubt but I think I mean on
one level it's also it's a human element
it's easy for me to come in here and
tell this story like you know what Joe
like I'm the biggest badass in the world
no one's walked across Antarctica and
like I did it even though these people
died trying whatever like those are the
facts of the situation but like the
truth is man like I'm human like I have
the wave of human emotions I figured out
how to tap into my mind and a way to do
these things but like I still experience
fear I steer experience doubt I still
experience the ups and downs but I have
a way of actually being able to
repurpose or refocus that energy into
positive forward momentum I think that's
what the difference is but I believe all
of us all of us humans have the capacity
to do this like you're looking at me I'm
like a pretty like regular like sighs a
regular looking guy but I think you know
the muscle between my ears is what
separates the difference and they
allowed me to do this more than anything
you don't seem to have the darkness that
I usually see in people that do things
like this do you know I'm saying this
I've met a bunch of people that have
done some fucked up things and they all
have some weird darkness yeah you know I
hear what you say and I think for me
there's a lot of this strength comes
from a dark moment in my life you know
right after college I was traveling
around the world at you know I had no
money as a kid growing up you know
working working-class background painted
houses every summer but always dreamed
of traveling the world so I was like one
day I'm gonna travel the world so I
finished college buddies of mine are
getting like real jobs and whatever Wall
Street and things like that and I was
like you know what I saved up ten
thousand dollars over the past six years
I'm gonna take a surfboard in a backpack
and like go see the world with my life
savings and so you know I wouldn't do
that I'm 21 years old you know go to
Fiji I surf through Australia hitchhike
through New Zealand I end up in Thailand
and Europe in a time yeah yeah of course
and you say you're familiar with how
much fire
and fired dancing and various crazy to
bhaturas things that happen over there
so I'm on a beach in rural Thailand and
I decided to jump this flaming jump rope
and unfortunately it goes terribly wrong
for me the Rope wraps around my legs and
ignites my entire body on fire to my
neck and you know in an instant my life
changed you know fortunately for me the
water's edge the ocean was ten steps
away so kind of instinct takes over and
I dive into the ocean which extinguished
the flames my body is on fire to my neck
but not before about twenty-five percent
of my body is severely severely burned
so my clothes were on fire but mostly we
got severely burned was my legs and feet
and so I'm in a place I want a beach
there's there's no hospital on this and
I'm on an island there's no hospital
instead of an ambulance ride I'm on the
back of a moped driving down a dirt path
you know I'm in a one-room nursing
station literally like the size of the
room we're sitting in there like this is
our sort of hospital it's like one bed
and I'm just completely devastated and
so that they put me under eight
surgeries over the next week in the
middle of nowhere rural Thailand I hate
surgeries in a tiny little shack yeah
and basically there's a cat running
around my bed every time I come out of
there you know quote-unquote ICU there's
a cat running around my bed and across
my chest and the doctors are literally
saying to me you know and they're in the
broken you know English is they're
saying hey you'll probably never walk
again normally like you're never gonna
walk again normally yeah there's a photo
of that I think if you click over on
that to the second one it actually shows
you know there's what the local so you
know I was an after that that photo
there with those legs that's actually
eight weeks after I was burned so that
believe it or not that's like the it's
starting to look a little bit better all
things considered there so as you can
probably imagine I mean just the darkest
time in my life I've been you know a
Nath you know I swam through college and
I thought of myself as a physically
active person and Here I am like doctor
saying hey you know 22 year old kid like
you'll never walk again normally and to
me there's their hero in this story
which is maybe why you don't see the
darkness in my eyes and it's more the
light but you know my mother is really
the the heroine of this tale which is
she she arrived to my bedside around day
five you know flies all the way over to
Thailand finds me are you are you a
parent I don't know do you have kids
yeah I don't have kids yet but I can
imagine as a parent what it's like to
walk into a hook you know hospital room
and see your kid halfway around the
world in this state nothing you can do
and she admits now that she was crying
in the hallways you know pleading with
the doctors for good news like he's
gonna be alright right he's gonna walk
she's crying but every time she walked
into my hospital room she walked in with
a smile on her face and this is the era
of positivity of being like okay call
him like this is bad like what do you
want to do when you get out of here like
let's set a goal like let's get out of
here and do something positive and I'm
like mom are you crazy like the doctors
say I'm never gonna walk again normally
like my life as I know it it's over you
know just in this really dark place in
my mind but she just kept at me day
after day with this positivity there's
that and I finally like closed my eyes
and I just pictured like what what am I
gonna be and I closed my eyes and I had
this visualization of myself
crossing a triathlon finish line which
is not something I'd ever done before I
got swam in college but never bike to
run competitively nothing but I was like
you know what the able-bodied me
sometime in the future is going to be
not only walking again but doing a
triathlon race and so I said it too I
said my goal was to race a triathlon one
day and instead of her looking at me
going like well I said set a goal but
maybe something Mario it stick but it
doesn't require you to be running she
was like great let's learn about it
polls out her computer and just
literally starts reading me like
triathlon races or this they're this far
they're this distance is like I didn't
know I knew nothing about the sport
other than just like popped into my mind
is something I thought I maybe wanted to
do and so that's what I focused on I
literally have this photo of me with the
tie doctor I'm you know my legs are
bandaged to my waist and the tie doctor
is like looking at me like crazy but I'm
lifting these like 10-pound barbells in
my head going I'm training for a
triathlon now that guy's like you're in
Thailand in a hospital and I'm telling
you you're never gonna walk again
normally and so you know flash forward
you know two or three months I finally
get released from this Thai hospital for
three months yeah yeah
and when I got released I still hadn't
walked you know I mean I'm in a
wheelchair
I got carried on and off the flight back
to Portland Oregon land back home and
you know still still bandaged up and my
mom you know says may I wake up the
first morning back at my parents house
my mother's kitchen the house I grew up
in and she looks at me and she goes all
right Colin now I know you've got this
big triathlon goal but today your goal
is to take your very first step and so
she actually grabs a chair
from our kitchen table and place it one
step in front of my wheelchair and she
says today you need to somehow figure
out how to get out of that wheelchair
take one step and step into the chair in
front of you and I'm looking at it like
I don't know if this is possible but
three hours later four is later I'm
still staring at this chair and I
finally work up the courage and strength
to get out of this wheelchair take the
one step and get into that chair in
front of me and is the problem the
because of the burnt skin it's not
flexible you can't move it and bend it
now it's a good question so basically
what happened with the burn is it burned
me so deep that two things happen one is
there is ligament damage so ligament
damage to my ankles and knee joints and
then the way that this the heat the
scarring in the skin is healing
essentially over these mobile joints
they don't think I'm going to regain
full flexibility at full range of motion
essentially in my leg so they're not
saying you'll never walk as and you
won't be able to stand up at all
although that was like extremely painful
but they just didn't think you know be
imagine walking around without being
able to bend your knees or your ankles
when looking for mobility so it just was
like you're not gonna be able to have
that back basically so sure enough I
take that first step get in that chair
the next day my mom doesn't take it easy
on me she just move this chair five
steps away the next day ten steps away
you know everyday a few more steps of
not to go on and on but basically 18
months after you know getting released
from that hospital I find myself in
Chicago I finally you know took a job in
finance just trying to get out of my
parents basement like get all of my life
at 23 years old like yeah I got to get
like a real job my parents basement you
know move to Chicago take a job in
finance and try to get my shit together
basically and I honored that court said
you know what I'm gonna sign up for the
Chicago triathlon I live here now join a
local gym knew nothing about the sport
still I'm like asking random guys at the
gym like anybody here race a triathlon
like I'm in a spin class like how do you
like like how do you like take your
shoes off and like run afterwards how do
you like like how does it even work I
ask these questions and sure enough
through that process I like train at
this gym sign up for the Chicago
triathlon ended up racing the race
across the finish line and to my
complete another surprise
I didn't just finish the race but I
actually won the entire Chicago
triathlon beating 4,000 other people
coming first place
what so first try
whatever Wow and how what kind of
training did you do to prepare yourself
for that I mean like I said I you know I
had been a collegiate swimmer so I was a
division swimmer I swam at Yale
University but then you know the biking
and running was completely new to me
have anybody show you how to do it or
just start running and biking yeah I
literally walked into this spin class
like I Spit not like like I didn't
actually ride a bike like that so I went
to the spin class and like start like
met a guy and he was like oh I've done
one triathlon before and he was like I
can do so he took me out on a couple
like rides with his buddies I had this
like steel frame bike I didn't know all
these like carbon wheels and Aero helmet
you know all these fancy like triathlon
type of things like didn't know much
about it and literally for a summer just
kind of like asked people some questions
this and what's funny about triathlon I
don't know how familiar with this sport
but in a race like the Chicago triathlon
there's you know for more than 4,000
participants and so unlike a marathon
where everyone just starts at the same
time you actually have to start in waves
like a hundred people every five minutes
and I was the 39th wave of 53 and so I
dive into Lake Michigan and there's
people that already started like two
hours before me and there's people
starting two hours after me and so when
I finished the race you know I swam my
bike I run was Olympic distance travel
and so I was a mile swim 25 miles biked
6.2 mile run I crossed the finish line I
don't still know I won the race because
like people started before me people
started after me and they take the
cumulative time at the end and so I like
my grandma's there cuz she lives in
Chicago like gives me a big hug I'm so
proud of you you weren't able to walk
again and here you are finishing
triathlon let's go get lunch and so I
you know grab my wetsuit and my bike my
grandma and I sit down to have lunch and
as we're walking back to the car she's
like do you want to see like what place
you came in your age group and I was
like sure like that would be cool like
let's go see how I did and we wander
over like the scorer's table and the
guys like I'm like oh you know I'm
trying to figure out a place out what's
your name was like oh I'm calling a
Brady like we've been calling your name
over the loudspeaker for the last 20
minutes like oh why did I like do
something wrong and they're like you won
like like my age group and they're like
no you won like the whole race was just
this surreal surreal moment of my life I
mean it was it was wild but it um you
know for me well in that moment what I
thought back I was like it was cool to
pat myself on the back like holy shit
like I just did this crazy thing but it
was more so going back to your initial
question about the darkness versus the
light at least in my journey was I was
like wow like this is a sliding doors
moment like what had happened had my mom
not you know come in with this air of
positivity and forced me to set this
tangible goal like I'm certain my life
would be nowhere where it was today but
then it's not I wasn't like oh wow I'm
some superhuman freak that can do these
things I was like wow humans all of us
we all have these reservoirs of untapped
potential inside of us and can achieve
extraordinary things when we set our
minds to it and so what it did for me is
just spark this curiosity like well what
else can I do if I set my mind to it so
sure enough it was a Sunday when I raced
a Chicago triathlon coincidentally met
who became a huge mentor and influenced
my life that afternoon a guy named Brian
Gelber who ended up being my first
sponsor and he said to me you won the
Chicago triathlon today do you think you
should maybe do something about that and
I was like yeah but I've got a job and I
don't have any money like I would need a
sponsor he's like he's like I'll be your
first sponsor if it's something you want
to take seriously and so literally that
was on a Sunday Monday morning I walk in
two weeks later I'm living in Australia
Trading triathlon full-time and ended up
racing triathlon professionally for the
u.s. national team you know all over the
world for the next six years so it was
stories a moment but what happened
ultimately with the injuries that you
sustained from the fire you know all
things considered that was so that was
January 14 2008 so it's just over eleven
years ago now and I you know I
ultimately have been pretty alright I
mean I've got some scars but it's pretty
faint I was able to gain back most of
the full flexibility in my legs if you
look at my left foot it's where the
worst worst burns but where that rope
really just like sat on my foot for a
long time most of that's still pretty
thick with scar tissue you know when I'm
in the mountains when I'm in places you
know like climbing Mount Everest like I
did like pulling across Antarctica all
the things I have to be really aware
because my skin regulates heat not in
the best way he and cold it's still just
like no not like normal skin because the
scar tissue the scar tissue just is it
just carries the heat a little bit
different for some reason I guess I
don't know exactly why I'm not as porous
because it's nice pour over it over
exactly and the actually in the early
days for the first five years I don't
get this so often anymore but in the
first literally five years of this if I
bumped my legs into like a table or
someone just you know bumped a chair and
I mean oh nothing like lightly I would
usually get a little cut there so it was
just super fragile it's almost like you
know glass skin kind of with not the
same sort of flexibility that you'd
normally have but you know ten eleven
years on now I would say it's pretty
much a hundred percent I mean the things
I've done with my legs and body in the
last ten years
I think proof at least that my body's
doing all right so I feel extremely
extremely fortunate to have recover it
as well as I did and you know more than
anything I that to of course the the
physical ability for my body to recover
in the way it did but I think that at
least for me started with the mind start
with that positivity of my mother and
and the duration of the many different
things I've done done since then and you
said you sustained ligament damage to
your joints and your knees yeah yeah so
there's basically again I'm not my
Anatomy I have other skills with my full
Anatomy is not a lot of doctor let's put
it that way but yeah basically the link
it means particular in the backs of my
knees so I don't know exactly what that
ligament is that goes through through
there but that was really jammed up with
with the scar tissue so I was enabled
for a long time to fully bend my knees
and flex them in the full way and the
same thing in the ankles whatever that
ligament is that goes sort of basically
turned not not your Achilles with the
other side of your foot basically that
part was just so much scar tissue had
formed away the skin was healing around
that and from the damage to the
ligaments it wasn't sort of being able
to fluidly flex in the way that you
normally would see a foot so a full that
imagine point not to not be able to
point your foot basically if you're you
know putting your leg forward out you
know back like yeah like that so yeah
for a long time and it's kind of so is
kind of like dragging my feet around in
that first year Wow and so did you have
to just push through the scar tissue and
break it up like yeah I mean there was a
lot of a lot of obviously PT a lot of
songs massage I tell you funny starts
but I haven't thought of the story at a
long time enough ever told the story
actually but so when I got burned I've
been traveling by myself entirely or
around the world but I actually met up
not with my childhood best friend named
David Boyer
who actually married my sister and they
have two kids so my childhood best
friend turned into
my brother-in-law which is it's pretty
fun but anyways he had been he had
actually been with me when I got burned
so those first five days in the hospital
before my mom got there he was with me
and was a saint you know we're both he's
scared little 22 year old kids and he's
like trying to do his best to like look
after me he's freaked out but when I get
back to Portland his mother who was kind
of a second mother for me growing up my
name's Kate Boyer she obviously was like
wow this could have been my son just as
he said had been you know her son you
know it kind of felt like protective of
me so she comes over to my house one day
and she goes you know I've been doing
some untraditional healing work would
you be open to that and I at this point
was like I'll take anything what do you
got in mind and she was like well I've
been working with this pranic healing
shaman do you want to want to check that
out and I literally was like I was like
saying yes to everything at this point
like I'm looking for any way to recover
and I was like well what is it she was
like well I don't even touch you it's
just light healing and so I go to this
basement in Portland and I meet this
this guy and he's sitting there with a
bucket of salt in front of him and he
starts he doesn't touch me at all he's
just like waving his hands in front of
like my body in my heart and then he's
like looking really intensely at my foot
and I sit there for like an hour guy
never touches me nothing he's just like
looking at me waving his hand and this
and and he's like okay I'm done now and
I'm like okay what did you do and he was
you know telling opened up this shocker
I opened up that I did this but what I
mostly did was I put this force field of
white light or a foot and I'm like I
mean I'm pretty up down with some
untraditional stuff but I was kinda like
uh-huh cool like thanks I appreciate it
he's doing and I was like what's this
bucket and he was like this is the salt
bucket that takes the negative energy
away from your foot and your leg and
puts the negative energy in there as I'm
bringing in this light and such as
pranic healing he's like so you have
this light blue force field over your
left foot right now which was the worst
burn part of my body I he goes I would
recommend not showering for the next
couple of days as you might wash up the
force field
so what jails are so I tell this story
with the total smile cheeky smile on my
face because that's funny I ever thought
of the story a long time but I will say
this the next day I walked further than
I had the rest of the time so you want
to call that placebo you want to call
whatever i emotionally wasn't full
bonden on the pranic healing I like I
said I am into very a lot of alternative
modalities how I wish it was true yeah
sure I met a lady at the corner store
once told me she does Reiki healing yeah
she like kind of rubbed her hands
together and and waved him in front of
me I'm like what are you doing she's
like do you feel that um I don't feel
shit so that that part I don't know if
it worked or did it work but the the
combination of the amount of people with
you know in the hospital with the
physical therapist with my mother at
home with Kate Boyer taking me the
pranic healing a culmination of all of
those things somehow did unlock the the
scar tissue and allow me to make a full
recovery of I mean it was a lot of hard
work for you know the gear plus to get
back on my feet but I got there well I'm
sure there's something to be said for
believing or at least having positive
thoughts about your healing and making
sure that you look at it in terms of
like this can be done but ya know I mean
very skeptical assault man like I said
that the salt man take it for what it is
like I said I'm telling that story not
as an advocate for pranic healing
necessary but I will say agreeing with
what you just said there is something
about that there's something about being
wrapped in the positivity that it was
with my mother in that moment of just
being like hey like let's get through
this let's figure this out together like
let's focus our mind on something and a
lot of you know even as I go through
Antarctica you know how did you do that
like you know people ask me this
question like are you a superhuman and
I'm like yeah I'm a superhuman and so
are you like that's how I feel like we
all have this capacity in our minds to
unlock all sorts of things I don't get
mean if you wanna paint pictures compose
music start a business you know
sit sit in a warehouse and do a podcast
whatever it is you want to do you can
fucking do amazing things like and you
know having that belief does does you
know add up to that I mean that's step
one in my opinion is visualizing that
I'm believing it and are on the flip
side having a negative self-worth or a
negative opinion of what you're about to
do or a negative thought about the
future can also manifest all sorts of
terrible results absolutely absolutely
gotta think policy bo effect is a real
thing we know that right we know that if
you really do believe that you're going
to get better because of some sugar pill
they give you yeah there's a tangible
result 100% if you really believe yeah
so if that salt guy if the thing about
all that stupid shit is if you believe
it it actually has an effect yeah
there's there's a lot of healers out
there that at least on paper or totally
full of shit but if you believe in these
assholes yeah thank you yeah it's very
slippery the human mind is such a
slippery thing I mean and I'll go back
to my own experience and again I don't
know how ephemeral are out there you
want to get but I'm out there in
Antarctica 54 days alone like I'm
telling you I'm doing this for this
bigger purpose I feel like I'm tapped
into that and like legitimately there
were moments at least for me whether I'm
manifesting that in my mind whatever you
want to call it that I am actually
feeling energetically uplifted by the
people pushing me on like there were
days that were incredibly hard where I
would sit there and I'd be like oh my
god I don't know if I can do this and
I'm done like boom like I would get over
I would hit with this sort of larger
purpose this larger outcome and again
like I'm not I'm not super religious
person I was actually raised on a hippie
commune like I come from a pretty
traditional background but like the
energetic field whatever you want to
call that or if that's just the belief
in something you know the power of that
like I felt the strength from those
moments there was moments when my body
switched from kind of being negative oh
my god another hard day out here oh my
god it's - 25 - tapping into those flow
states so yeah again I don't I don't
have perfect words for that you know I'm
starting to try to build my vocabulary
around that but that energy I think it
is derived from what you're saying if
you start to believe it if you can
believe like hey there's a larger
purpose in this or hey there's blue
forcefields get one foot there is
something that if you can originate that
positivity in your mind that I think can
give us incredible amounts of strength
and then we can tap into something
greater well I think there's definitely
something to what you were saying about
the untapped limits of the human
potential and that there's most people
barely scratch the surface of that and
if you really firmly get into that zone
and believe you can do things that
people just they really don't have any
idea what they can do if they have to
because people are rarely pushed to
their actual limits yeah I mean you know
it's been said many times before I say
it but that idea that growth happens
outside the comfort zone you know and
one of the things that I've personally
thought about a lot in this space is you
know I got severely burn in this fire
I didn't well I chose to jump the rope
so I was chose to be a knucklehead 22
year old kid on a beach in Thailand but
like I wasn't like God I want to get
severely burned today like that happened
to me right which forced me through this
intense tragic moment but from that I
was able to learn of this sort of
untapped potential inside of me because
of the outcome because of winning this
triathlon yeah but what I realize is
that it's hard to choose that path often
it's hard to push yourself outside of
those boundaries but things that are you
know quote-unquote forced on you I mean
let's look at something that half this
population essentially does give birth
like childbirth natural childbirth right
as been happening since the beginning of
time and that's an incredibly intense
physical manifestation of the power of
the human body I mean I mean I can't
even imagine obviously what that would
look like nor will ever be able to
experience that but that's incredibly
powerful more times when people you know
are forced to go through a cancer
diagnosis and have to go through
radiation and chemo and you know facing
the mortality and all the sort of stuff
people get through those but often times
these tragedies have to be forced upon
us for us to do them and so my
exploration now with my what you know
creative artwork I call it with these
you know expeditions these world record
projects that push my body in mind it's
me choosing to step into those moments
it's me choosing to put my body and mind
in these intense moments because of a
deep curiosity of like what are the
limits of human potential you know what
are my limits what are our limits
collectively and can my physical
expression of this inspire other people
to innovate create and do amazing things
in the world and other modalities and
canvases well that's one of the weird
things about people doing extraordinary
things like what you did is that you
absolutely will give other people fuel
to accomplish things in their life
inspiration is so critical for human
beings I mean I draw upon it from so
many different sources from David
Goggins and a bunch of my other friends
that my friend Cameron Haines and a lot
of other people that are endurance
athletes and different people that have
been interviewed on this podcast but
there's something that happens when you
realize that people can do extraordinary
things it makes you believe in the
potential not just in that person but
also in yourself absolutely I mean you
know Gaga's great example that I've know
I met him but you know I've personally
derived inspiration from that guy I mean
he gets out there you know you can't run
100 miles like I'll show you I can run
100 miles you know and he's pushing his
body to extreme ways or you know I love
what he says about the 40% you know I
think about a little bit different in my
mind but like what are those limits I
don't know if it's 40 percent or 40
percent people quit you know people quit
that I can't voice comes up and you know
he's proven it so as many other people
of actually when you say I can actually
when you don't stop you get stronger and
for me in my own story in my own journey
I think that final day that finding
final 32 hour push proves it three days
before that you know I'm videotaping all
this I'm trying to capture as much
content to be able to share with people
of this crazy weird place that's an
article by yourself and like day 49 day
40 50 like I'm literally crying into my
GoPro being like I'm running out of food
I'm exhausted I don't know if I can keep
doing this I'm just like worked right
but sure enough I don't say I can't you
know it's that for it was that 40% was
that 50% that's that moment when I
wanted to quit or I should have quit but
then the strongest most amazing moment
of my entire athletic career that spans
decades happens three days later because
I kept pushing it's not like I rested
for three days and pulled that off like
I never took a rest day in 54 days I
pulled my sled 12 to 13 hours every
single day and on the last day it was
the strongest as possible so I think it
proves if we can push through that I
can't moment no it's not gonna work that
you can get there and unfortunately you
know we talked about 40% with Goggins I
actually think a lot of people quit at
1% they're sitting behind their office
they're like you know one day I want to
travel overseas or you know I hate this
job you know I've got this great at
business idea but I mean it they're like
but I can't like I've got no money to
start this business I've gotta know this
like when I first set off my first world
record in 2016 2014 i sat with Jenna
in my house one-bedroom apartment with a
white board and we're like I'm gonna see
if I can set the world record for the
explorers Grand Slam something fewer
than 50 people in the world I've ever
done and I'm gonna be the fastest climb
Everest come to know like climb
Kilimanjaro North Pole South Pole back
to back I hadn't climbed a bunch of
mountains it'd be pretty easy to say I
can't oh and by the way we have no money
to do this we have no platform I have
like 200 Instagram followers like I'm
nothing but we just sat there were like
no instead of saying I can't let's say I
can what's the first step to that we
literally get out our laptops and I'm
like going it like we're like we want to
build this big media
champagne were lots of people follow and
get pressed like we know nothing about
we have no background this week Google
what's the difference between marketing
and PR I mean we are literally asking
Google like the most basic basic
questions but you know we continue to
say like let's get coffee with our one
friend who knows something about this we
should probably get a website how does
one build a website and it goes on and
on like this how long ago did you start
this journey so that that was 24 when we
2014 when we dreamed that up this or the
world record was C 5 years ago yeah so
to see if I could set the world record
for something called the explorers Grand
Slam so it's coming tallest mountain on
each of the seven continents seven
summits and before that had you done
anything like that or it just been
athletics so I grew up in Portland so I
grew up like in the outdoors but like I
mean to go climb Everest at Denali so I
think no like the short answer is I mean
I climbed a few mountains you know it's
not like I've never been in the snow
before I'd word crampons ice it's like I
had not experienced but like not even
close to the experience that you would
think one would need to do that and to
just break world record right doing not
just do is to be the fastest person to
ever complete it you know like I said it
ended up being a hundred and thirty nine
days straight through to climb all those
mountains didn't know I think we had a
clip up a second ago of something on
Everest but but yeah I mean to do to do
all of that it started from this place
of not of believing I can and then you
know it's again it's fun to talk about
the epic adventure but we for me it's
actually fun to talk about what happened
behind the scenes of that because what
actually happened like people you know
applauded our success now this is me
this is you in Everest walking across a
ladder that's the oh about 300 foot hole
a crevasse on the other side of it that
you have to go through to on your way up
the the Mount Everest climbing route and
so you crampons are clicking on the and
you're looking them on the ladder as you
walk across and if you fall you die yes
watch this again
this is so awful it's so awful look at
because you're basically just walking
this tightrope on let me hear it listen
that click folks I implore you to go to
the Instagram page so you get the full
freaked out crab the photos they're tied
together to the
ladders yeah rickety it could be that
300-foot cavern over there
oh fuck all this Jesus uh and you're
looking down because you ever go pro and
we cut the sound off at the end there
but I go at the very because like
there's fifty of those lives lost
cheering every fuckin time I got across
I was like yep one more down in the
kumoi so I should go through that
section a couple of times it's a very
dangerous section of the mountain but
yeah one about 50 of those ladders so
when you went through Everest did you
see the bodies so I fortunately didn't
see any bodies up there fortunately or
unfortunately fortunately I mean I mean
I'm not like trying to see that behind
you know but they're they're more
prevalent on the climbing route on the
north side the day that I did summit
three people died on the day that I
summit is when I when I so to set that I
mean to talk about Everest I mean for me
is major setbacks it was the eighth of
nine expeditions in this sequence so I'd
done a hundred days of other expeditions
leading up to Everest to do this
explores Grand Slam World Record I'm
trying to climb Everest I'm exhausted
from a hundred days I just come from the
North Pole before that Kilimanjaro
before that you know Albert's all these
other mountains and then I make my
summit push on Everest I'm I'm not
climbing with a guide or anything it's
just myself and one Sherpa who I met
climbing in Nepal to your previous when
I was training for this and so it's just
the two of us and we climb up into camp
for so ever says you know four camps
there's base camp and then there's camps
progressively higher in the mountain so
you can get your body acclimatize and we
get up into camp for have you read the
book into thin air by Jon Krakauer or
anything about it I say okay there's a
famous book that's written about it
where eleven people die and right in
this moment it's called the Death Zone
where you enter above 26,000 feet the
human body basically can't survive for
long even with supplemental oxygen and
this massive snowstorm and wind storm
blows in like kind of out of nowhere and
we're trying to push for the summit it
takes us two and a half hours just to
set up our tent and get inside and we
know like it's over like we're not we're
not going to summit at first like in
this storm there's no way so we just
survived the night
wake up the next morning still getting
pounded by this weather and actually
have to climb back down the mountain so
climb back down the mountain all the way
to Camp two and they're like and they're
like well that's probably it like you
don't usually like spend a night out in
the Death Zone and like make a second
attempt and you've already tried all
these other mountains you're a hundred
plus days in this journey and I was like
man I want to see if I can get back up
they're like and this other guy who I
met on another team had some
supplemental oxygen so I had to use some
my supplement auction so my put supply
stores are limited now as well and so he
he says to me hey I'm not gonna go up
I'm sick but if you get back up to camp
four there's a couple bottles of oxygen
that you could use of mine if you if you
somehow get back up there so sure enough
pasang bhote is name is shir palace
climbing with amazing climber himself we
get back up to camp four in the Death
Zone and we decide we're gonna go for
the summit we call back down to base
camp what's the weather forecast and
they're like well it's the exact same
forecast we told you before it might
hold in which case you'll be fine or it
might turn into what you guys just
survived and if you're not near your
tent and you're up on the summit ridge
of Everest like it's gonna get like
pretty bad and so we kind of go back and
forth should we go for it shouldn't we
go for it we decide to go for it but
this crazy thing happens which is you
may have read about this or heard of
this if you know much about Everest but
basically no one climbed Everest in 2014
or 15 because a huge avalanche killed 16
sharpers in 2014 the mountain was closed
and in 2015 there's a huge earthquake in
Nepal that shut the climbing season down
so no one's even climbed the mountain in
two years but all of a sudden because of
these weather delays I end up there and
there's a hundred people going for the
summit on the exact same day so
basically traffic jam on the worst
choice to feed a traffic jam possible so
pasang Bodi and I we go okay let's
figure out how to climb this thing we
leave camp you know there's a photo that
took the leaving camp there's all these
lights going up the side of the mountain
and it's because there's one rope that
everyone works to put in so everyone's
using the same rope and all of a sudden
we're behind a hundred people and if you
stand there windchill minus 40 degrees
like we're gonna get frostbite like
we're gonna not be able to make it and
so pasang Bodi and I look at a term ago
let's unclip from the rope and so we
actually decided to we actually decided
to unclip from the rope climb up all the
way to the balcony from the the South
call the death stone area was mentioning
before up to about 28,000 feet on rope
because we actually think it's more
dangerous to climb roped next to all the
behind all the people than it is to risk
a fall you don't know those people
right now what they're like and people
are coming you're on Everest at 28,000
feet if people are walking I mean one
step per minute some
times I mean it's it is brutal and so I
mean I'm walking maybe two steps every
30 seconds but I'm like Usain Bolt like
flying people yeah this is an example of
like so you're in it like the world the
worst place in the world to be you know
in a in a traffic jam as you could see
here from this photo I posted that day
but anyways I get up to this edge and it
finally it's too steep it's too
dangerous for us to be unclipped from
the rope any longer we're like we're
just gonna have to clip in and settle in
behind you know we'd passed like 50 or
60 people so we're in a much better
place than ever I still have this one
big puffy coat that's actually the same
puffy coat I used in Antarctica the big
like Michelin Man coat and I'm like
we're gonna slow down I better put this
big jacket on and so I take my jacket
off I undo my gloves real quick to put
this big jacket on over me to warm
myself up and I look down and my right
hand is black like just black is black
can be and I'm like holy shit like
telltale sign of frostbite like oh my
god like the same thing we've got school
kids following along we got family fun
the whole thing and I'm like oh my god
like I'm gonna root lose my right hand
it's Jenna still gonna love me you know
what's my family gonna think and then I
don't say anything to purr saying bode I
Jam my hand back in these big gloves and
I go okay and I don't I don't recommend
this thought process but I go well if
I'm gonna lose my hand anyways wouldn't
it be cooler to lose my hand but also
have summited Everest
so how black was it I mean it was black
like black black yes like me was black
did you take a picture of it so so the
Sun had was just still the Sun was just
below the horizon so it's like dusk and
I look down at this point and then the
Sun comes up so I Jam my hand back in
this club and I don't say anything to
pasang podium like let's keep pushing
for the summit so we go for the next
three hours and the whole time I mind
I'm like oh my god I'm such an idiot
like I'm gonna lose my hand my hands
frostbit and this and that and so we get
up and we're about 30 minutes below
Mount Everest summit and should be a
beautiful moment for me like since a
little kid I dream like summiting
Everest would be like the greatest
accomplishment of my life oh my god and
I'm thinking like just in this dark
place but I also haven't taken a single
photo basically and I'm like well I
gotta get like a photo or a video of you
know the famous Mount Everest summit so
I pull up my GoPro to shoot a video I
shoot this short little video which kind
of shows this crazy exposure that I'm on
like one side
5,000 feet down into China on one side
5,000 feet in Nepal in this tiny little
knife-edged Ridge and of course I have
to adjust my gloves again yeah this is
from the summit and I pull my I pull my
GoPro out I have to mess with my gloves
put it back in and I look at my hand I
start going away from my arms in the air
go
pasang Bodi my hands back my heads back
and he's like what are you doing it just
so happened that the the glove warmers
in my glove the chemical hand warmers
had broken open and the charcoal and the
copper filings of the chemical hand
warmers had tied my hand Lac oh my hand
was completely fine oh good so yeah this
clip here if you play from the top is me
reaching the summit that's passaic Bodi
right there but so when so yeah what did
you experience any discomfort in your
hands before so your again we're talking
about a lot of this podcasts been about
mindset which is one of my favorite
topics and like just like we said you
could convince yourself at the salt man
is fixing your foot like I'm on Everest
I'm at 28,000 feet my brains not working
very well I know that the weather's
coming in bad that people are going to
get maybe frostbite based on the
forecast and I look down and I see my
hands black where does my mind go it's
like it's not like oh let me think about
this my hand warmer must have broken
open and this I'm like my hand and it
was weird cuz I was like I didn't feel
my hand getting cold my hand like feels
fine but I'm on Everest my hands black
that means you know in my brain I'm like
I have frostbite so it's just like it's
a weird thing where you can take your
mind like this a lot of this that the
positivity this my mom went to the
negative immediately like your hands
gone it's frozen off like the end so
happened to the people that died were
they on the rope yeah so unfortunately
that day the weather actually did get
pretty bad later in the day so
fortunately I was able to get down
before the weather got too bad but the
people that died that day one slipped
and fell down these ropes over on load C
which is the adjacent mountain but
somewhat sharing some of the same ropes
on the same
route and then two people died from
altitude sickness so basically either
running out of oxygen they're not be
able to get back down in their tents I
think those people actually did get
carried back down to their tents that
night and then died in the tent that
night some it's called cerebral edema
which is basically your brain fills with
fluid from being at the high altitude
and not getting enough oxygen and it's a
it's a killer up there and you know one
of the crazy things about being up there
is you know you read about it but you
really can't rescue somebody very easily
up there I mean to carry a human body
down and to rescue them is is nearly
impossible and I kind of always thought
in my mind you know if I saw somebody
lying on the ground like I would you
know summon the energy to pick them up
and I was actually coming back from the
summit and I was on the South Summit so
just below the Everest summit you know
at 28,000 800 feet or something like
that and this Brazilian woman who I'd
met in base camp named theis who I've
become friends with you're in Nepal for
a couple months you start talking to
people getting friends with other
climbers whatever and I see her lying on
the ground with her head like lean back
in her oxygen mask off to the side and
I'm like oh my god like this is the
moment that I'm most feared like
somebody who I know it was lying here on
the side of the mountain and I think to
myself I've got to pick her up I've got
to pick her up and somehow like carry
her down this mountain and I leaned over
to grab her and I try with all my might
to do anything and I realized I can't
move her six inches like I'm completely
exhausted muscles aren't working brains
not working so I do the only thing I can
think to do is I just wrap her in my
arms and I say Tice like if you can hear
me it's Colin you need to get up you
need to get your oxygen mask on you need
to start moving like please get up
please get up
no response she was climbing with a
Sherpa another guide right next to her
and they were like look like we're
having trouble with her oxygen mask but
we're gonna fix it like it's coming all
right and I was like just kind of going
through this intense moment like what do
i do how can I help and it's as weirdest
you know I'm not proud of it necessary
to say but like there was nothing I
could do like it's just the most
helpless feeling in the world where you
want to help the common person you
afferent mean this person might be a
friend but if any human being is lying
on the ground in the snow you're like I
want to help this person get down this
mountain and I was just I'm so close to
on my limit up there the summit there
was nothing I could do fortunately she
was not one of the people that passed
away that day her team did get her
oxygen mask on her and she actually made
it to the summit
back down safely Wow so she went up
going up from there which to me is like
another whole crazy part of that story
but it was an interesting lesson for me
in like you know you hear these stories
you can't move bodies up there there's
nothing you can do the rescue and people
have been criticized for not you know
doing these crazy rescues when things
have gone wrong up there but it really
hit home for me like how how hard it
would be to move somebody down that
mountain from that altitude and so when
you're up there you know unlike you know
Antarctica I was actually alone in
Everest like I said it was pretty
crowded day like you're essentially
alone up there like if you can't keep
putting one foot in front of the other
up in the Death Zone there's not not a
whole lot that you can do so the three
people that died up did they leave them
there I'm not sure with those specific
people because sometimes they what you
can get like a large team of people to
slowly lower people down and you know in
a weird way it's actually easier to
lower a dead body than it is to lower a
live person because a dead body you
don't have to worry about breaking bones
and things like that if you're lowing
someone over rocks and things like that
yeah so I actually believe those bodies
are no longer there but there are quite
a few bodies you know still on the
mountain and particularly the north side
the Chinese so you can climb it from two
sides the Nepal side which is more
commonly climb where I climb by the
Tibet side the Tibet side is known for
having a lot more the body still
actually on the climbing route for sure
so but for me on that I mean that day in
a crazy way continues on because I got
back down to camp four and I'm thinking
I'm going to sleep for the night rest
and come back down the mountain usually
takes a few days to get back down the
mountain at this point you know I've
only got one more mountain to climb that
can finish my world record the explorers
Grand Slam and I was about 2 months
ahead of schedule so if I had climbed
Denali in the next two months North
America's tallest mountain up in Alaska
I was going to set this world this world
record that I was and so I called back
home to Jenna and I was like I made it
like I made it and earlier in the day
when my hands had gotten frozen I had
actually had a heated boot warmers and
so I turned the heat and my boot warmers
up as hot as possible so I'm like if my
hand is prosper and what my feet look
like so I cranked those up as hot as
possible and so Jenna's like hey like
how you doing like you all right we've
heard some you know reports over social
media that's been a really hard day up
there like I'm like yeah I'm alright
like no frostbite no injuries like I'm
good and
like well actually um I earned my feet
and she's like Oh frostbite like how bad
is it now it's like no not frostbite I
actually burned to like silver dollar
circles in the bottom to book through my
feet from turning my boot warmers up too
much and she's like wait let me get this
straight like you climb Everest you
don't get frostbite but you burn
yourself she was like you your feet fire
like this is a bad situation but dead
she goes on and she was like she
literally said the next thing you said
to me I will literally never forget in
my life but she goes so you're in your
tent right you took your boots off and
everything and curled up in there I'm
like yeah and she's like well I actually
need you to put your boots back on I'm
like excuse me like I just what like she
was like yeah so we've been doing some
calculating back home and it just so
happens that if you can get to the
summit of Denali in the next a week you
can set not one but two world records
and I was like well that sounds nice but
like I'm on the summit of below the
summit of Everest how the hell is that
gonna work she's like okay put your
boots back on down now climb all the way
back to base camp there's no time for
you to sleep but a helicopter is gonna
take you to Kathmandu no time for a
hotel no time for a shower but an
evening flight it's gonna take you to
Dubai to Seattle to Anchorage and
instead of having three weeks to climb
Denali you'll have three days but if you
can do all of that
you'll set another world record like
ready go so I was disbelief but knowing
better than to disobey not only my
amazing wife but the planner and
logistics expert and running the back
and all this I sure enough put my boots
back on wipe the slate clean and found
myself you know just a hundred hours
after standing on the summit of Everest
I found myself over in Alaska trying to
push up to the summit to to try to set
the two world records and not just the
one now what kind of recovery does your
body need when you exert yourself like
that like yeah climbing Everest I would
think that your body's most you had to
be in some kind of state of shock or I
think completely there's there's some
clips of me on Denali in those next few
days where I'm just absolutely trashed
like I'm like like barely eyes open I'm
gonna try to push them and I'm this the
one benefit I would say there is what
most of its not a benefit but I'll
people in the positive the one benefit
is usually in the high-altitude
mountaineering you need to acclimatize
so your body creates more red blood
cells when you go up into the thinner
air to allow you to breathe oxygen
better at the higher altitudes a
mountain like Denali normally takes
three weeks to climb because you're
coming from sea level and to get up to
20,000 feet you can't just get dropped
off there if you were i right now got
dropped off on the summit of Denali we
would pass out in a matter of minutes
right
but because I'm coming from Everest at
29,000 feet it puts Denali into
perspective not from a technical
mountaineering standpoint is still very
dangerous and very challenging mountain
in a lot of ways a harder mountain to
climb than Everest technically but
20,000 feet my body can handle the rapid
ascent a little bit better if I can
muster the energy to do it the
physiology of my body is actually in a
better place to climb higher faster if
that makes sense
no it does make sense but man so you're
when you're done with this what how long
did it take you to just feel like a
normal person again yeah so I was on
Denali I ended up some budding in three
days and setting so the explorers grants
and was the Seven Summits plus the North
and South Pole but the second world
record was just the Seven Summits by
themselves so even though I went to the
poles
I still set the speed record for the
Seven Summits as well so Seven Summits
131 days and the explorers grants I'm a
hunter and 39 and then I returned to
Alaska and then home to Portland and
honestly it was a good six months until
I felt normal again at least and I'm
definitely like I said I'm only about
five weeks out from Antarctica right now
and I I haven't really taken a lot of
rest of recovery been on the road still
doing various things and you know I'm
nowhere near recovered it's gonna take a
long time to get back so these these
exertions I love them I love pushing my
body but you know the the cycle of high
performance is also knowing how to
recover recover well good nutrition all
that and it takes a long time that one
took six months and I would imagine this
Antarctica recovery is gonna take a long
time as well now when you say took six
months are you monitoring your
physiological levels what are you
monitoring and how do you find out like
where you're at yeah so I started to do
a lot of blood work actually early on in
my triathlon career I you know actually
early on in my professional triathlon
care I mentioned I moved to Australia
not long after you know turning pro and
coming out of the gate with this win and
I had the opportunity to go train with
some of the best triathletes in the
world is actually an
couple world champion is a group of
fifteen of us couple of world champions
so a female Ironman world champion a
couple Olympic medallist made some the
top people in the world numbness like
up-and-coming professional triathlete
and I think it's so cool that I'm like
training with the best guys I mean you
know it'd be like you know a guy that
just gets into the UFC and all the
sudden he's training with you know that
the top contenders the title guys and
like I wanted to really roll hard with
them and so I was training super hard to
try to keep up with the guys the best
guys and I had an amazing month and then
I completely fell apart because their
level of training were true world-class
level and I'm starting out was just too
much for me and so we mashed my entire
system my testosterone dropped to that
level of a 90 year old man I mean I was
like had no testosterone in my body and
you know went through some serious
overtraining which as you know like it
that's no joke learn that lesson the
hard way and that was one of the you
know darkest moments of my athletic
career but it's also been a net benefit
for me as I've gone you know that was
back in 2011 or whatever and these
parties world record projects have been
in the last couple of years and so I
learned from that you know taking it way
too much and not learning how to recover
to implementing things am I so your
question about what did I monitor you
know resting heart rate is one that I
monitored a lot heart rate variability
as well as well as certain blood levels
of course around the whole endocrine
system the the testosterone levels the
you know different hormone levels and
things like that so coming back I do
blood work ahead of time then come back
just it was standard process with the
nutrition company they did all his blood
work on me so when I left Antarctica
before flying home before you know next
place I had to go actually was to New
York to do the Today Show which was a
whole weird thing after being alone in
Antarctica to have this type of TV
cameras your face that's all other like
weird Twilight's in a moment but before
I even did that I floated Charlotte
where their nutrition Innovation Center
is and did all my blood work and so we
can have basically this longitudinal
study of my blood work to understand it
and so I monitor all that and figure out
what I'm deficient in what I need where
my heart rates at and you know basically
a lot of inflammation in my body and
needing to kind of rid my body of that
and fully recover so when you're coming
back from all these summits and all
these this time at altitude
what has actually happened to your body
that causes you to be really depleted
for six months like what what's
what's happening other than the fact
that you were at high altitude low
oxygen like what's taking place so one
of the things that happens at high
altitude that you don't really think
about too much which is your body's not
getting so the air actually has just as
much oxygen in it as it does at sea
level but the air is less dense so that
means as you breathe in the air you're
literally getting less oxygen into your
blood it's less dense it's less nitrogen
the pressure changes right so the high
altitude is actually the pressure that's
changing it's not less oxygen there's
just as much oxygen but in a less dense
form so in the same volume of breath
you're getting less actual Oh two into
your blood what are you getting our
altitude
I guess carbon dioxide alright yeah I'm
not a doctor like I said you're getting
less oxygen your body so what ends up
happening is your muscles of course need
oxygen to perform so normally if I'm in
you know when I'm in my most elite
physical shape you know I've resting
heart rate during a professional travel
and career of like 35 getting out of bed
you know 38 low enough that if you
weren't a professional athlete you went
to a doctor with a heart rate of 35
they'd be like oh my god like you're
gonna die there's something wrong with
you like it's also a you know a key
marker of elite performance you know
that of course but what happens is your
body can't provides getting so little
oxygen even as your blood is
acclimatizing you're sleeping with a
resting heart rate at altitude on
Everest it like ninety hundred beats per
minute so you know that's pretty
elevated heart rate 24 hours a day and
for in my case for a hundred and thirty
nine days straight so essentially you're
just your heart it's just like Coco Coco
Coco cup and coming even at rest and so
what that does to your body in terms of
you know it throws your hormones around
it obviously you lose body weight body
fat body composition changes all of
those things really shift and happen in
a pretty intense way so coming back like
actually just getting your heart rate
back down getting your you know a pair
of simple Norva system to just relax and
and stress-free and all that kind of it
takes a while for sure so what do you do
to help yourself recover when you come
back because there's specific kinds of
food that you eat or supplements that
you take um you know I'll start the few
different things that I find to work
well one sleep I mean I think that sleep
in our culture in general is really
underrated I think you know if you go in
the corporate world and everyone's like
pulled this all night or I work in 120
hours a week I this I that or whatever
like you know I'm telling you a story
about pushing through the night and
going 32 hours straight there's a time
and a place for big pushes without sleep
but like we are not built to do that
sustainably in any way shape or form so
in my training when I'm training for
these things I prioritize sleep i
prioritize taking a nap the same thing
when I'm recovering so really making
sure I get that sleep its most for me
the most natural way to recover on top
of that soft tissue work I'm a huge
believer in massage as well as
chiropractor I've been going to a
chiropractor since I was a little kid
and to me that makes a big difference
just to have everything in alignment
everything kind of you know working well
efficiently in my body and then yeah
supplements you know definitely reducing
inflammation so for miguel this' huge so
getting those probiotics getting the
right stuff in you know it's easy to
have you know that leaky gut or things
where you're not getting nutrition
absorb absorb properly and i think we
all in in various states you know you
deal with that you know the standard
american diet for sure leads to that for
a lot of people so getting that
nutrition clean and right so yeah sleep
rest recovery nutrition and then you
know I've definitely been taking a lot
of supplements through my life I err
more towards the whole food supplements
these days but I find you know things
like tumeric that really reduce
inflammation and you know magnesium
definitely helps a lot so there's a few
things that I that I take daily but
really I think sleep in a clean diet
will goes a long way I've you know
messed with some cryo before I find that
to be pretty good I didn't do that a lot
but I've done that in the last couple
years a bit so various things but yeah
for me sleep diet nutrition is the key
to recovery and what kind of foods do
you need I'm gonna say eaten clean yeah
particular way of eating I'm uh I'm
recently doing more of a pescetarian
diet so I've mostly cut out meat
although that's very I was raised that
way my parents have been vegetarians
forever
Blastoise a pescetarian so they they
some fish but no you know no chicken no
beef none of that for me I've actually
even in Antarctica there was some in my
freeze-dried meals there was you know
beef and chicken and stuff like that so
it's not something I've brought
freeze-dried meals as well as bringing
those to column bars was the main thing
but every dinner I had one freeze-dried
meal at the end of the day that was
exactly I was a company was alpine area
but same thing as a mountain house
basically
so it's rice noodles mixed with you know
chicken or beef but when I say you clean
I mostly mean just like eating whole
food stuff like not eating not eating
processed crap refined sugars that kind
of stuff I mean I'm I'm a normal human
being so I'm guilty of that as anyone
from time to time just grabbing the
easiest closest thing but like I said my
dad my dad's an organic farmer my mom my
stepdad started a chain of natural foods
grocery stores when I was a kid so I was
really raised around you know you know
in the in a sort of hippie co-op days of
the natural foods movement which of
course now with you know amazona holding
Whole Foods is too bored of the
mainstream but you know that was what I
was raised around and you know eating
you know quinoa rice kale you know that
those kinds of things being you know
whole food nutrition is gone a long way
for me protect Lee when I need to
recover
now do you mess with CBD at all um it's
not something I've I've done a lot of I
hear amazing things I've definitely not
opposed to it at all but I haven't
haven't tried what what's your
experience been with that I've been
experimenting with it for the last
couple years it has a pretty profound
effect on alleviating soreness
especially joint soreness yeah and it
also makes you feel good like though the
word is that it alleviates anxiety which
I don't suffer a lot of but yeah just it
makes me feel relaxed did you do you
take it orally or do use it exactly I
take a like a dropper looks like a
dropper I take like whatever they say to
take it take like five times more than
that yeah did you take it at night like
take it during the morning and I take it
at night as well okay I just always feel
like I'm running my body at redline yeah
I'm running my brain at redline so much
so whatever they say you need I just
double it yeah yeah for almost
everything and do you feel like
obviously doesn't have the THC effects
of it but do you feel like you no no
nothing no you're headed clear mind yeah
and my THC tolerance is so high it
doesn't really right but some forms of
it have a small amount of tea and I
think there may be some sort of
synergistic effect that that happens
with the THC combined the CBD that helps
people even more because a lot of people
that
pain is particularly chronic pain they
experience a lot of relief from THC from
just smoking or vaporizing it or using
edibles so I think that the the CBD with
a little bit of THC might have a better
effect my fighters say that sure no I'm
interested in trying the CBD for sure
something I should definitely try do you
find that it gives you like a sustain
like is it relief when it's in your body
like am asking relief or do you feel
like it actually is like curing the root
cause of that inflammation or anxiety I
don't think it's masking at all I think
it's alleviating the inflammation it's
just it's a very healthy thing for your
body to eat it's well you know obviously
there's a bunch of different oils that
will alleviate inflammation or different
essential fatty acids and fish oils are
very good form information I think
anything that you can take that helps
your body mitigate inflammation
inflammation seems to be a gigantic
problem without with just not with pain
just with pain but I think also with
anxiety I think it's it's entirely
possible that feelings of discomfort you
know like like when you when you see
people that are anxious do you know they
often look bloated to me they look like
that I think it's just an overall sense
of unwellness
you know and I think that a poor diet
exacerbates that and a good diet can
alleviate some of those symptoms and I
think that CBD is a big part of that
100% I mean yeah I'm interested to try
that first sure I've definitely that
inflammation even for me coming back
from Antarctica in this court of
recovery phase what's weird is like you
saw how lean I got then but my body I
think because it was so depleted of food
source is now actually almost trying to
put fat back on my body of like of kind
of storing that so actually my body
composition feels weird to me right now
because my body's like just like trying
to figure out where the hell I'm at and
I think a lot of that comes from that
chronic inflammation and certainly just
those elevated cortisol levels of just
being so jacked up and redlined like you
said just like so wired so finding ways
to kind of you know mitigate that I
think is crucial I should try it what
what form would you recommend trying to
drop or for me I like to draw I like it
because like there's gel tabs are fine
but I think it's unnecessary about is
absorbing that the color the cover just
got the stuff I'll just go right to the
oil and I just think it's the best way
to do it but I'm a big fan of Kirk you
and to America well I think those are
really good try it ashwagandha or any of
the last room no tea that I have right
here that just wasn't a plant Lyons
million mushroom elixir I love this
stuff yeah yeah I take this all the time
I make a tea out of this yeah I messed
with like the cordyceps and the
ashwagandha is moving to reduce some of
the cortisol like emotional or hormonal
balance is type of stuff
cordyceps is fantastic too for endurance
yes ninety percent yeah we have a prawn
it we have a Nanak product called shroom
tech sport that has cordyceps B vitamins
and a bunch of adaptogens it really gold
really has a big impact on me in terms
of like how hard I can push in the gym I
take it about an hour so before yeah
yeah yeah let your body absorb it and it
just it just really has a real effect
and doesn't give me a jittery thing
either yeah it just gives me more energy
just kind of take it an hour before kind
of knocks your body for that more oxygen
uptake is that kind of the idea behind
cordyceps that's what I've been told and
yeah it came out of high altitude
herders they noticed that yeah when
they're the cattle were eating certain
mushrooms they had more energy huh and
so then they that's that's how they
started experimenting with this stuff
they actually grow it on caterpillars
what yeah strange man see if you can
find it cordyceps mushrooms grown on
Caterpie picturing like this room of
caterpillars with like carrying around
mushrooms on their back it's real freaky
but apparently the way they farm it
that's the way they form it they
actually grow it on caterpillars huh
that's fascinating yeah it's expensive
shit but like there it is oh wow look
how fucking strange so those at the
bottom there that's the caterpillars and
there's a mushroom growing out of their
head so feeling like thank you I'll take
that and they snip that shit off the
caterpillars crazy fucking weird man
yeah well apparently it works well it
does yeah it's you know there's so many
Bennet mean Paul Stamets
who's been on the podcast before and I
can't wait to get him back on again but
he's a mycologist and it was one of the
best podcasts that i've ever done in
terms of like really explaining the
benefits of different fungi different
mushrooms and
different nutritional benefits you can
derive from them I mean I I can't agree
more just the the the whole food
nutrition from many different levels one
of its mushrooms that you know tumeric
this simple plant derivatives I mean to
me they go they go a long way in their
pure form for sure
yeah what about what do you drink do you
drink a lot of water do you drink fruit
juices vegetable juices um mostly mostly
water to be perfectly honest I do
usually start the day with a smoothie of
some kind so if we usually just got got
fruit in it
obviously fruit another thing I put in
there is I've been using this stuff that
it's actually the company standard
process is just coming out with it but
they let me try it ahead of time as
scarbacks this slow release glucose so
it's a protein powder but instead of
giving that glucose spike like you would
from a refined sugar or something like
that it's kind of a long burn long-chain
glucose I don't know the full chemistry
of that but I find it makes a big
difference rather than kind of just
getting that sugar spike early in the
day it actually kind of gives a slow
release of energy and I was using that
was actually in the column bars as well
and I really like that particularly for
endurance because you know if you start
like taking the the goop packets or
something like that you get that spike
of a hundred calories you get that like
quick like boom burst of energy reply's
replenishes your glucose stores but this
I feel like this is a much slower
cleaner burn and it lasts a longer for
technically you know for for anaerobic
stuff I mean maybe you need kind of that
more explosive power or whatever you
know different things for that but for
some of like low heart rate zone 1 zone
2 like long grinding type of stuff that
I do in the mountains are pulling this
sled or whatever I find it's really good
for stuff like that now what scares me
about people like you is how old do you
know 33 okay you're very young I'll take
that this is this is what I'm worried
I'm worried that you've already done so
much crazy shit that you have to push
past the crazy shit you've already done
and you've already been on Everest it
sounds like you were kind of like you
weren't on death's door but you opened
the front gate yeah you open the front
gate you were on the lawn yeah yeah I'm
on death's lawn sure you know absolutely
I mean I said that people were literally
died that day you know it's what you try
to do next this is this is the question
like yeah do you
some crazy shit in your head right now
you're like okay now I'm going to the
moon with a fucking balloon you know
it's funny it's twofold it's an
interesting intersection I appreciate
that that you call me call me young I'll
take that all day long but 51 so you are
yes sir to me well I guess in terms of
an athlete terms right you know you're
in the you're in the the peak yeah the
peak for endurance athletes and it's fun
to be here but I also think it's a
moment in time where a little bit of a
little bit I'll say I won't give myself
too much credit but a little bit of
wisdom meets also athletic performance a
moment in time where I've had enough
experience enough setbacks ups and downs
and success of course with the world
records and things I have but to really
take stock of what's important to me and
what I've realized more and more is I'm
super curious about pushing a limit to
my own potential 100% we've talked about
that I love that but I actually don't
think of myself so much as a risk taker
or an adrenaline junkie I really what I
think about it like these things are
really methodical yes I know you know
they're practice they're there and not
to say there's not risk you saw me
trying to set up my tent that tent flies
away like I'm screwed like I'm in a bad
way
what would you do would you run after it
I mean you that thing is gone yeah you
know you hit that you hit the ejector
button on the call the plane I hope they
can find you type of thing and even
that's like their storm like that
unlikely they're gonna get there but for
me what I'm honestly most excited about
next yes I have some other projects that
I'm marinating in my mind do I have
other expeditions sure I haven't haven't
they're not fully crystallized enough to
announce right here Oh for stability but
you know I've got some ideas but more so
like I'm excited about you know sharing
what I've learned like I said that
wisdom meets high-performance of
actually having an ability now like I
said when I started this I had you know
my friends following me on Instagram and
I'm starting have ability to share this
story people are asking for me to you
know take interviews I'm writing a book
right now lots of my learnings going
into that kind of stuff of really really
having an ability to pass this on
because for me as fun as it is for me to
push my own limits like I what really
inspires me what really fires me up is
when when I get emails or notes from
people like hey man I watched you cross
the nordica
I haven't been to the gym in five years
and like I've gone every single day
since that or I'm trail running now or
like I started that business I never
said I was going to star or whatever
so having an ability to have a moment in
time when I can share some of my
learnings you know with the world and
meaningful different contents that that
really excites me you know I love the
opportunity to do that but man like for
sure there's some other there's some
other events on the horizon as well but
but yeah it's not just about one upping
the next thing I think that that's a
losing proposition in the long run of
always trying to do the bigger badder
craziest thing because when the stakes
are like you said the razor's line
between life and death you keep
one-upping yourself enough you know you
don't you don't make it to the end of a
long life unfortunately and I'm not
trying to have that be the end well it
sounds like you've already broken world
records you very you you you're in this
weird place where you've accomplished so
much that in order to accomplish other
things they if you're gonna take it to
the next level it really has to be truly
life-threatening you have any
recommendations do you want to come now
say I'm moving to the next stage of life
that doesn't involve risking your life I
don't know you seem like a nice guy
don't anything to happen to you okay
give me give me some wisdom you've got a
couple almost a couple decades on me if
you if you are whispering in the ear of
your 33 year old self how about this you
know you've you've had an interesting
path if you're whispering into the air
of your 33 self what would be some
advice that you would give yourself that
you'd be happy that you lived out over
the next 20 years well I mean obviously
life experience when you have life
experience learn those lessons become a
better person be better at communicating
be better at everything you do mm-hmm
but the problem with what you're doing
and it's not a problem but in in this
context is that you're pushing these
incredible endurance records in nature
and particularly in cold weather and
this is what's stunning about these
things is that you're risking your life
it's not that it's just difficult like
running in ultramarathon is incredibly
difficult right sure but what you're
doing is not just incredibly difficult
you're doing it in these incredibly
harsh environments and particularly in
Antarctica you don't have any relief
there's nothing no one's gonna help you
like you said your tent flows away like
you might very well be fucked yes right
Oh much I know you are yeah right I
don't know what you could do
that would one-up that this is the
problem is like your your one up margin
of error is you're in this very strange
sort of stratosphere yeah of one up ax
tude
maybe maybe it's um you know we take a
page out of the Bruce Springsteen glory
day song and just you know kick might
kick my feet up and talk about the glory
days for the rest of the time you don't
have to do that but the thing is I mean
don't listen to me man do whatever you
want to do obviously you're going to
you're not going to listen to me but you
could do you would apply this sort of
mental fortitude that you've
demonstrated and this ability to push it
things you could apply it to anything
yeah it doesn't have to be these
physical feats of risking death and in
frigid cold temperatures in the middle
of the fucking nowhere or literally at
the bottom of the planet Earth ya know
and and that's to me that's actually
that's why it's exciting because for me
yes are there some other physical
expressions that I want to have in the
world for sure and I have some ideas
like I said but and it's not necessarily
trying to one-up the next thing but it's
also why it's exciting to me the lessons
that I try to learn that I try to share
with other people like you said are
universal lessons but they also if I
revert them back to my own self are also
universal lessons in my own life so like
you said it's like hey like what's the
next thing I'm super passionate about if
you I have the confidence to sit with a
whiteboard with no money no resources no
background an incredibly supportive
fiancee at the time now wife who's like
down to like ride or die with me and go
into this with me
like and we created what we did we did
something that people literally wrote
about and said this is impossible people
have died trying this you can't do it
and we've achieved it it gives me
confidence not that I can do some other
crazy physical thing but it gives me
confidence like cool like I want to
start I want to start a business that
makes millions of dollars like cool like
let's figure out how to do that let's
let's do the equivalent of writing into
Google what's the difference between PR
and market you know like let's do that
so you know as I as I you know do a ton
of public speaking now write this book
the things are things I'm doing that's
super fun to share those with the world
so I'm having a lot of fun doing that
and actually sharing the universal
truths and the wisdom that I've learned
that I think can it be applied different
ways but it also goes to now I get to
have the fun of applying those in all of
those other different ways of my life
and so you know for me I think that the
the future is bright particularly if I
don't
I don't really think of myself as this
endemic core outdoor athlete it's very
easy to put me in that box it's very
easy to say like cool so you climb
mountains you're a mountain climbers
like but four years ago I'd never really
climb mountains but I happen to do
something about it so well I've never
been in the polar region that's why this
British guy was looking at me like oh ha
ha ha young boy I've spent all this time
in Antarctica you'll never survive this
and like I wanted to survive it but like
I finished first like I beat him but on
today's did you beat him by two and half
days but like I'm not sitting here going
like you know I'm fascinated by
Antarctica what I like to go back
someday absolutely but I'm not like
calling O'Brady the polar explorer only
you know it's like what else can I
explore that actually presses me I mean
I love to learn I love to learn about
the mind explore that there's so many
different ways to express that that I'm
just excited of what the future holds
and lots of different verticals well
listen I think you could fucking do
anything I think it's very clear what
you've already accomplished you could
literally do anything you want but I
want to I want to see you live yeah me
too what about how about this how about
you break some crazy endurance running
feats how about that some ultra marathon
feels a little bit safer yes worst
things gonna happen Eve you're really
fucking tired maybe maybe the next thing
is I mean me I'm not the funniest guy in
the world what do you think about comedy
I mean I know a big piece you know
should I get back out there on the stage
listen if you can communicate and you
can make people laugh you can make a
group of people laugh you could do
stand-up comedy it's just a matter of
taking steps and figuring it out and
writing stuff out and I mean you've got
a lot of fucking stories for sure no I
mean just how about getting on stage in
front of people and telling people that
you're the first person to cross an
article i foot fifty two days like what
in the fuck I do a lot of that I'd enjoy
that I love public speaking I do a lot
of that corporations kids everything
that's well trust me I do it know you
could do that it's fun no I have to say
I gotta give a shout out if you
definitely don't remember this but I
actually have met you once before about
seven years ago in a tiny little comedy
club you did a bit out in Portland a
small little venom sure you do way
bigger fish yes great and at the time
was funny I was thinking about it I was
driving over I was like wow it's this
bit and you were doing this bit up
out hey there to love it but the reason
I was there actually was when I first
started training for triathlon
professionally I started training with
this guy named Phil Claude who was
training a couple of UFC fighters at
time remember this guy named Mike Pierce
who fought yes yeah locally as well and
so I didn't know a lot about MMA I still
certainly am NOT as well-versed as you
are but I got in this gym my coach was
like hey you're gonna start training
with these MMA guys and I was like you
know what like I'm a skinny little
triathlete these guys like you know
brawlers but I was man was i impressed
like talk about a multi sport true multi
sport right and all the different
disciplines I don't have to tell you
this obviously but I was blown away
about how strong they were became good
buddies and Mike said to me he was like
hey man I'm going to this comedy show
this guy named Joe Rogan's gonna be
doing his comedy come listen to him so I
you know you made me laugh back then so
mad respect and yeah it was a fun fun to
see into that world a little bit well
thanks man I guarantee you could do that
but if you still want to do endurance
things like please do something where
you're not gonna die
that's all that's just yeah I've made it
back here safe and salad so you had the
goal I mean like I said the goal is not
to keep one up in myself right I mean I
think that it is that part of the danger
of this kind of endeavor
it means you you really have one-upped I
mean you've done some crazy one up and
man for sure like I said I think that it
if if I only thought of myself as a
professional athlete and that was my
identity was tied up in that I think we
see that across the spectrum of
professional athletes in general of
people just going hey I'm a pro athlete
and the second I'm not even if they
banked millions of dollars as an NBA
player or something like that their
whole identity disappears with that feat
of athleticism I read a really
interesting article today that I was
really compelled by actually which was a
story about Kevin Durant that was on
espn.com this morning and it's about him
and his business manager and a couple
other guys it has kind of gotten around
him and like dude you're like one of the
best you know basketball players in the
world MVP but he's already thinking
about all the various things that he's
doing you know in his life and what I
loved about that article is there like
you know Sports Center back in the day
used to be guys you know hitting
homeruns dunking basketballs which of
course it still is that but they'll
intersperse that with like Kevin Durant
just made a you know venture investment
in this company or like there
this watermelon you know water brain or
their this or that and so I think sports
particularly with the growth of social
media with storytime with media with
content with all the other ways we can
share the insights which isn't just the
game which isn't just me in the arena
pulling the sled but it's actually a way
to connect with people whether that's in
the sense of Kevin Durant making
incredible venture investments in
companies or that's with storytelling
that actually reaches you know universal
truth with people you know I've got you
know a single mother from Nebraska
reaching out to me and saying like hey I
don't care about mountains or the
outdoors but like I'm going through some
hard stuff like in the middle of the
country being a single mother and your
story connects with me thank you for
giving me the inspiration to keep
pushing forward so for me it extends
beyond just this athlete in this arena
because we have all these other ways to
story tell to create content to you know
and be involved in businesses and things
like that so that's where my mind's at
next it hasn't fully crystallized into
the most concrete of plans but the
ability to explore all these different
mediums and just having sort of this
sports be the catalyst for growth in
that way is what I'm really passionate
about that's awesome man and whatever
your plans are I have a hundred percent
confidence in you you're an inspiration
man thank you very much thanks brother
really appreciate it man and tell
everybody your Instagram how to get a
hold of you on social media yeah follow
along it's just my name at callin
O'Brady also my website is just my name
callin abraded com got a list on there
like I said I'm working on a book
there's lots of juicy details that I
haven't shared yet so if you're
interested in that you know pop your
email address in there we'll keep you
posted when that comes out next year but
at calling O'Brady or calling of recom
come come say hi beautiful
thank you yeah
[Music]
[Applause]